Cape Town - The City of Cape Town’s spatial planning and environment directorate has put aside R7 million for upgrades to the Sea Point promenade as part of its main spending for the new financial year. This is a portion of the R137.7 million for upgrades and improvements on several beachfronts along the False Bay and Atlantic coastlines that the directorate will be spending money on. Mayco Member for Spatial Planning and Environment Marian Nieuwoudt said that they have prioritised the improvements as part of the directorate’s capital budget for the new financial year starting on 1 July 2021. “Cape Town’s coastline and nature reserves are pristine destinations. Thousands of visitors enjoy these natural spaces that have become even more popular during the Covid-19 pandemic. “They provide a safe space for us to connect outdoors and with nature, and contribute to the city’s reputation as a world-class destination,” Nieuwoudt said. “Some of the amenities and coastal structures are, however, in need of refurbishment and this is why a large portion of our capital budget will be invested on improvements to beachfronts and nature reserves in the new financial year.” Nieuwoudt said that the main spending priorities will be: “We want to expand the visitor education centres at the Bracken, Harmony Flats and Zandvlei Nature Reserves so that they can serve the wider community. “These centres play an important role in increasing environmental awareness among the youth,” said Nieuwoudt. The directorate is also involved in precinct planning and works closely with other City departments in realising local area priority initiatives (LAPIs) to improve precincts that are suffering from degeneration, crime, and grime. Some of these projects include: “Our Urban Catalytic Investment Department focuses on precincts where transit-oriented development can assist with spatial transformation at scale. “The aim is to create investment-friendly environments and public-private partnerships that can lead to more economic opportunities and jobs for local residents,” Nieuwoudt said. “Up to R6,8 million is budgeted for the refurbishment of the Philippi Fresh Produce Market. In addition, precinct plans for catalytic projects are being developed for the Bellville CBD, Philippi Opportunity Area, and the Gateway Precinct in the CBD.” The upgrade of Fisherman’s Lane on the False Bay coastline and the Seaforth coastal precinct near Simon’s Town in the Far South are two important capital projects the directorate is undertaking over the medium term. Cape Argus