Cape Town - The Ministry for Sports, Arts and Culture in conjunction with the newly formed board of the Netball World Cup (NWC) 2023 and Netball South Africa (NSA) on Tuesday launched the official logo of the NWC 2023 to a buzzing crowd of dignitaries, local and international, as well as the Spar Proteas. The much anticipated World Cup will be the first official NWC hosted in South Africa and on the African continent, and is expected to showcase a colourful spectacle as 16 teams from countries battle to take home the winning plaque. Speaking at the event held in Green Point yesterday morning, Sports, Arts and Culture Deputy Minister Nocawe Mafu said the NWC 2023 marked a key milestone in the journey of South Africa and Africa hosting the international event. “In bidding for the Netball World Cup, we firmly believed that hosting the NWC would create an environment for peak performances from the game’s finest players and provide them with a uniquely South African experience. Our track record of hosting premier global sporting events is unparalleled. We want to host the most impactful and inspirational tournament in history.” Mayor Dan Plato said as much the NWC was a major international event, it was also an opportunity for the city, the country, and for Africa to further stake their claim as a strong and diverse sporting continent. “This event provides us with an opportunity to raise the status of netball as a national sport, while also developing the game to provide more benefits for young netball players, officials and administrators,” said Plato. NSA president and NWC regional director Africa, Cecilia Molokwane, said: “It is like we are entering a new dawn because just last week we were introduced to World Netball and got to see their new logo, now South Africa will get to be the first country to host the World Cup under the new name and logo. “As NSA we are very excited that we are here today. We are excited to be the ones revealing the new look and the feel of the 2023 NWC; this is not only our World Cup as South Africa, but that of the whole continent,” she said. NWC 2023 board chairperson Patience Shikwambana said: “As the NWC board, we are extremely excited about today’s event because we believe this is one of the many steps to take towards some of our obligations for hosting a successful World Cup. “While Covid-19 has been a big challenge for us, it is important to be innovative and adapt to the new norm in all our plans. Our next step as the board is the finalisation of policies and the appointment of the operational team.” nomalanga.tshuma@inl.co.za Cape Argus