DURBAN - DOMESTIC workers felt the wrath of the Covid-19 pandemic – with depression being a common diagnosis, Sweep South revealed on Sunday. In its fourth annual report, Sweep South had surveyed pay and working conditions for domestic workers in South Africa, Kenya, and Nigeria. Job losses were among the primary effects in all three countries. In Kenya and Nigeria, two in five domestic workers lost their jobs due to the pandemic, versus one in five in South Africa. Depression was the most common diagnosis (72%), followed by anxiety (25%). Issues weighing them down ranked from unemployment (52%) to debt (25%), and family problems (15%). The survey found South Africa’s working conditions to be better compared with the other two countries. “South Africa has laid down extensive protections specific to domestic workers. Kenya has followed suit in some areas, but Nigeria’s regulations are not as extensive as those in SA or Kenya,” read the report. Some domestic workers were least likely to have experienced abuse in the workplace in South Africa, it added. Verbal, physical, and sexual abuse was reported as high in Nigeria. “As for basic living costs, the pandemic’s economic fallout has had a devastating effect on domestic workers’ livelihoods. Their living costs are down, but it’s likely due to them sacrificing variable-cost items, like food, to stretch their earnings. “On average, domestic workers are earning R2 536, while their monthly living costs are R2 890, meaning they’re forced to take on debt or reduce spending on vital items to make ends meet every month,” read the report. “Many of us would have predicted that the worst of the pandemic would be behind us a year later. However, we continue to see job losses and economic hardship for domestic workers, and even though there are some encouraging signs, the general outlook is still grim,” said Sweep South chief executive Aisha Pandor. Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Phamla welcomed the report. “It is testimony to our progressive labour laws that abuse levels reported in South Africa are lower than in other African countries. “The decline in working hours and incomes affecting domestic workers reflects that of the general economy, since the onset of the pandemic and even before. It speaks to the need for the government and SA Reserve Bank to help stimulate economic growth.” Daily News