Cape Town - In aid of the Cape Argus’ collaborative book drive, Jan van Riebeeck Primary School and Cape Flats Stories stressed the importance of combined literary literary initiatives to encourage the youth to read. Jan van Riebeeck Primary School principal Naas Beets said the culture of reading had been part and parcel of the school for a long time, encouraging learners to read as much as possible on a daily basis. The principal said although the school focused on Afrikaans, learners were encouraged to read books in all languages throughout the day. During break, some learners would even read while eating their lunch. “The culture of reading gets promoted by all, not just by the school’s librarian, because collectively all the staff understands the importance of reading and want to instil that love for reading in our learners,” said Beets said. The principal said the school ensured to acknowledge all the days celebrating reading and books by allowing learners to wear something that represents a book, a character or a theme of their choosing on those days. Beets said their learners were excitedly bringing in books for the book drive and dropping them off at the school’s library, donating books they have already read and collected. “Reading to promote more reading is key to keeping people informed and knowledgeable, it opens up new worlds, improves academics and encourages others to start reading,” Beets said Cape Flats Stories founder Stanley Jacobs said the collaborative drive was a brilliant initiative to connect organisations and schools in need of books with organisations and schools that have resources to assist and actively inculcate the culture of reading among all of Cape Town’s youth. Jacobs said Cape Flats Stories hosted their own book drive last year and were able to assist three organisations with help from the Cape Argus. “The response was so overwhelming that we are still receiving books to this day. “One of our donors said the books donated were just an old set of dictionaries, but children from the Parkwood community that received those books last year are still reading them. “These book drives work and will continue to bring hope to the youth,” Jacobs said. kristin.engel@inl.co.za Cape Argus