Today we see the decline of our youth in communities and it happens in our presence. Our youth are trapped in gang activities, teenage pregnancies, engaging in vandalism, violence, bullying at school – the list goes on. June is Youth Month.  Let's contribute to making a difference, even if only in one child's life. In my town, Riviersonderend, I would like to focus on 1 to 17-year-olds, more specifically on children who cannot take care of themselves due to their domestic circumstances. Sometimes they may just want to talk to an acquaintance, a family member, a police officer, a social worker, a pastor, any person who can be the "ear and speaker“ on their behalf. The winter months are here and we see young children who do not have clothes to wear, who go to bed without a plate of food, or do not have school shoes. I hereby invite every civil servant, community member, business and company in and around Riviersonderend to be part of our "Rold Model Footprints for Our Youth“. During winter we will be donating blankets, warm clothes, school shoes, gloves, hats and food ingredients. The distribution will be to children who really need it. It will take place in Riviersonderend on Youth Day, June 16. On Nelson Mandela Day, July 18, we would like to hand out plates of hot food to 67 children. Anyone who can make their place available for the preparation of the food or be part of the project can contact me at 066 370 5131 or email: proudly2019@gmail.com Items can be sent to 47 Begonia Street, Riviersonderend, or dropped off at the Caltex Garage opposite the SAPS in Riviersonderend. Tata Madiba loved children. Let’s make 67 children in Riviersonderend smile during Nelson Mandela month. * Heinrich Sauls, Riviersonderend. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.