Cape Town - A 56-year-old grandmother and her two grandchildren were burnt to death after their Wendy house caught fire in Bonteheuwel. The fire also left 13 people displaced. According to a neighbour and the owner of the property where two Wendy houses housed a family of six in one and a family of seven in the other, a candle that was left unattended was believed to have been the cause of the fire. Martin van Rooyen said the families were struggling to come to terms with the aftermath of the disastrous incident, which has left them broken. “What happened is terrible, and we are broken. It’s hard thinking about what should happen next after such an incident. All we know is that it could have been something as simple as a candle that did this.” Speaking to the Cape Argus, the area’s councillor, Theresa Thompson, said she would be working to assist the families as best she could and had already contacted the affected residents. “I have been to the scene of the incident and spoken to the surviving family. Unfortunately, due to the nature of the incident, the mom of the two boys was not handling the situation well and had to be sedated, according to the family. “She and another family member who I have been told was injured trying to assist others are currently in hospital. Our thoughts and prayers are with them.” The incident took place shortly after midnight, according to the City’s Fire and Rescue Service. Police have opened a death inquest for investigation following the discovery of the bodies among the rubble. Police spokesperson Andre Traut said Bishop Lavis police were investigating the circumstances surrounding the fire in Oliehout Street, Bonteheuwel. The cause of the fire was yet to be determined. Delft sub-council chairperson Angus Mckenzie said fire safety awareness and education were extremely critical his area. “These programmes are consistently done by Fire and Rescue officials and the Ward councillors in their respective wards in my sub-council specifically around this time, going into winter, as the fire incidence increases due to people seeking heat and warmth generally living with illegal electrical connections, using candles or gas.” nomalanga.tshuma@inl.co.za Cape Argus