Cape Town - Amid the rainy Cape Town winter weather and navigating the Covid-19 pandemic, NPO U-Turn Homeless Ministries called on the public to donate winter essentials to warm hearts this cold winter and help those on the streets using the organisation's pathway out of homelessness. With the surge of homeless people in Cape Town, U-Turn ensures people living on the streets have access to the resources needed and a pathway to employment with the long term rehabilitation they specialise in. The organisation said approximately 14 000 people sleep on the streets in Cape Town, and with the increasing unemployment rate in South Africa, there was an urgent need to create an effective pathway out of homelessness. U-Turn's Pathway to Employment includes preparation (where the community donates clothing and purchases U-Turn Vouchers to give responsibly to the homeless), rehabilitation, work readiness and employment.   Stewardship support head Leila Suliem said the public was encouraged to assist those on the streets with starting their journey of rehabilitation and recovery, receive skills training and work experience using the U-turn Life Change programme and ultimately, help them become independent and employed. The organisation is in need of winter clothing and shoes, especially in smaller men’s sizes, as well as blankets and household items. “When doing ‘spring-cleaning’ please consider donating gently-loved items at one of U-turn’s shops or dropping them off at one of our collection bins around the city,” said Sulieman. U-Turn also announced the appointment of Jean-Ray Knighton Fitt as the new CEO of the organisation who praised the organisation’s forward- thinking approach. “U-Turn is an incredible organisation with a great vision and Sam Vos (previous CEO) did a fantastic job in building it up. I intend to build on his vision and the goal is to expand services for the homeless not just in Cape Town, but throughout South Africa and other parts of the world,” said Fitt. Anyone interested in donating large items is encouraged to email (collections@homeless.org.za) for collection and smaller items can be dropped off at 155 2nd Avenue, Kenilworth. Cape Argus