Cape Town - The Strandfontein Ratepayers and Residents Association has renewed its calls to oppose the application for sand mining and other activities on two plots of land (Erf 21168 and remainder of Erf 1212) in Mitchells Plain. The area which falls under the Strandfontein Integrated Housing development framework measures just over 12 hectares and is bordered by Spine Road and Baden Powell Drive with Strandfontein Ground located on the west. The association says their petition of over 2 000 signatures and comments have been ignored as MaccSand Holdings Company (Pty) Ltd has now begun with the next phase of their application. The association's chairperson Mario Oostendorp said the residents felt that the approval of this proposal will only enable a short-term financial gain for a private company, with immediate maximum negative impact on the community. Oostendorp said failure to properly address the proposed operations will lead to huge implications for the community who use the surrounding roads and those who live within proximity to the site. Oostendorp said the operation would impact on the health and safety of the vulnerable children, elderly and people who live in proximity to the proposed site while the complete removal of vegetation and destruction of the soil profile will destroy habitat both above and below the ground as well as within the aquatic ecosystem. He said the operation would not create any on-site employment opportunities nor any financial benefit to the local community. Oostendorp also said should the application be approved and the area flattened, this would open up an opportunity for possible land grabs, with more illegal structures being erected. Mayoral Committee Member for Human Settlements Malusi Booi said Erf 21168 will not be developed by the City as it has been identified as an environmental no-go area in terms of recent environmental studies completed in support of drafting a framework for an integrated housing development on Erf 21168 and 1212. Mayoral Committee Member for Spatial Planning and Environment Marian Nieuwoudt said the City provided comment in November 2020 during the scoping phase only and had received requests to comment on the draft EIA (environmental impact assessment) report and draft environmental management programme on Tuesday. She said it will review these reports and provide further comment by the deadline of the public participation process. Abdul-Ghakeem Davids of UMD Environmental Services who was appointed by the MaccSand Holdings Company (Pty) Ltd to conduct the EIA phase was approached for comment but failed to respond by time of deadline. mthuthuzeli.ntseku@inl.co.za Cape Argus