The dismissal saga of Major-General Jeremy Vearey provides South Africans with yet another spectacle exposing the toxic behaviour of top state officials, on either side of the conflict, and demonstrating a complete lack of professionalism. As always, it begs a question: What were the criteria used to appoint such individuals into these high-ranking positions? Who appointed them? Such questions surface each time there are ruptures in South African state structures. General Vearey's supporters have described him as a “thoroughly strategic individual” . That’s difficult to digest. To criticise his employer - biting the neo-liberal hands that feed him - on social media is hardly the most strategic move. Then he expects civil society to support him? So what was Vearey's true motive in committing such a blunder? To expose a system that he consciously entered into and was well paid for his compliance?  Then to pose as the proverbial victim-hero? Perhaps this is General Vearey's way of seeking redemption for capitulating to serve two masters. Another lethal choice. Then we have Dr Mkhize, who heads probably the most important structure, responsible for managing the coronavirus crisis in our country, being flooded with  allegations of abusing  his position to advantage his cronies to the tune of millions. Yet he remains firmly entrenched in his position. So why does Mkhize stay, and Vearey is booted? Are there truly no capable, ethical individuals in our country to head these tasks? Is political sanctioning for these types of corruption impossible? Many of our current state officials are cruising on a ship of self-serving fools. South Africa is truly degenerating into a banana republic. * Abu Bakr Solomons, Southfield. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).