Cape Town - Rejection of a temporary move to land that had no basic services by the communities affected in the June 2018 Bitou Municipality fire has been blamed for the dumping of R4 million worth of temporary house building materials at the airport in Plettenberg Bay, Bitou municipality’s community services director Thozamile Sompani said the material had been brought in to build temporary homes for 71 families whose homes had been gutted by the fire which affected the informal settlements of Kurland, Qolweni and Kwa-Nokuthula. Sompani was addressing a hybrid briefing between the municipality, the national Department of Human Settlements and the legislature’s standing committee on human settlements, which is investigating the matter. During the briefing, it emerged that Bitou Municipality had already paid the contractor, Nzuzo Yalo Trading, for the labour of the construction of temporary housing – even though nothing was built. Committee chairperson Matlhodi Maseko (DA) said: “The procured building materials have since been left to gather dust as the municipality finds possible working solutions.” The committee also learned that Nzuzo Yalo Trading is from the Eastern Cape and not a local Western Cape business. Maseko said: “Local municipalities should be supporting local businesses and contractors as far as possible, especially in the constrained economic times that we find ourselves in. “The standing committee will exercise its oversight mandate and continue to monitor the situation to ensure that local communities benefit from the construction of these shelters.” Committee member Brett Herron (Good Party) wanted to know what happened to the families whose homes were gutted and for whom the rejected housing materials were meant to build  temporary homes. Bitou mayor Peter Lobese said: “The beneficiaries were provided with other materials after they refused to allow the construction of the emergency units on the space where their shacks burnt down. The fact that these structures or units are much larger in size than the shacks that burnt down meant that the place would be too congested.” Cape Argus