by Ian Neilson The current letter-writing and social media campaign alleging that the City is deliberately focusing its debt management actions on one group of the population refers. Not only is this completely untrue, it is clearly politically motivated. The majority of the City’s budget is spent directly and indirectly on lower income residents and vulnerable communities, and with the impact of Covid-19 on many residents, the City has increased its support of especially the most vulnerable residents in Cape Town. Importantly, the City currently has a 97% payment ratio, which indicates most ratepayers are able to pay their municipal accounts and those who can’t, can approach us for assistance. Financial assistance includes some R3.3 billion for indigent relief and also Covid-19 assistance in the form of no interest payment arrangements and lowering income thresholds to ensure more people can benefit from the City’s support services. The City has a comprehensive indigent policy and a rebate system for pensioners. Anyone struggling to pay can approach the City and discuss their situation with us. We don’t know each person’s individual circumstances, so it is necessary that people talk to us. The City’s policies aim to accommodate everyone according to their income level. Our policies are completely non-racial and all races are treated the same. We only act against those who do not make any effort to engage us and who fail to adhere to the relevant regulations. The uptake of indigent support remains relatively low and the City reiterates its call for residents who are in financial difficulty to go to their nearest customer care office and see if they qualify for support. More than 40% of Cape Town’s residences benefit from some level of financial rates and services relief, including rental subsidisation, and 40% of households in Cape Town receive water free of charge. It is important to emphasise the City does not cut off water at residential properties. However, services are restricted to a running trickle flow of water to those property owners and City tenants who have ignored the warning/restriction letters sent to them, including those who have not come forward to access the City’s basket of benefits. All City by-laws and policies are carried out in compliance with legislation and the Constitution. We cannot afford to give everyone unlimited free basic services. It is important that municipal income is protected for without it, the City will not be able to provide basic and essential services. * Ian Neilson, Mayoral Committee Member for Finance. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). 