Cape Town - Several people were left displaced and one person died after two separate fires tore through homes in Gugulethu and Delft over the weekend. The City’s Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson, Jermaine Carelse, confirmed that one person died and another person sustained burn wounds in a blaze in Gugulethu in the early hours of Sunday morning. The Fire and Rescue Service received an emergency call that shacks were alight in Bonga Street, Gugulethu, at about 12.20am. “Fire crews from Lansdowne and Belhar were dispatched to the scene. The fire was contained and extinguished at around 00.58am. “Whilst two informal structures were completely destroyed and one formal dwelling partially damaged, firefighters found the body of a 38-year-old man amongst the debris. Another 28-year-old male sustained second degree burn wounds and was treated and transported to a nearby hospital.” The cause of the fire has not been determined and the scene was handed over to the police. In Delft South, the Fire and Rescue Service received an emergency call at about 5.20am on Sunday with the initial location as Palm Street. Fire crews from Lansdowne, Belhar and Mfuleni were dispatched to the scene, and the fire was extinguished at about 6.31am. “Approximately 10 wood and iron structures were destroyed, and 32 persons were left displaced.” Carelse confirmed that no deaths or injuries had been reported. Live electrical wires was a major cause of concern and Eskom has been notified. Sub-council chairperson Angus Mckenzie said: “We are appealing to the community at large to assist these families rebuild what has been destroyed both physically and emotionally. Thankfully, no lives have been lost in this devastating fire.” Delft resident Zhandre Damons has been trying to assist the fire victims by garnering support in the form of donations. “They basically need everything. Shelter, clothes, food, shoes and, if possible, furniture. Everyone connected on that light pole is without electricity, as the main pole caught fire as well. They need sanitation like toilets. They honestly have nothing left. It’s sad. Winter is on its way. We are facing a pandemic, and they just lost everything,” said Damons. “If there is anyone out there that can assist, I think the main thing would be at this time is shelter or material to rebuild and some food and clothes.” Single mothers and grandmothers and the elderly were among those affected by the blaze. “When I got in the street, I saw the lady of the house where the house burnt down. She just looked so down, depressed and hurt. She was already struggling to get what she had (before the fire), and now she lost everything. The sad part is there’s children involved as well.” To assist, contact Damons on 065 145 3079. Cape Argus