Cape Town - The Ottery Welfare Network (OWN) is pleading to the Department of Transport and Public Works, to work with those currently making use of an old abandoned school building, after eviction notices were sent to nearly 15 parties. The dilapidated buildings on the corner of Hector Road and Edward Avenue, Ottery, previously the Lotus River High School, now houses the offices of the OWN, several churches, three crèches, and around six families residing in classrooms. OWN head of operations Kurt Adams said, “The school moved out of there in 1998 into a new building and then there were a few churches operating from the premises while the school was there on weekends and when the school moved, they gave the building to these churches.” Over the years, the premises were used by various community organisations for upliftment and development projects, managed by the Ottery People’s Centre. “These organisations currently operating from the building, where do we go? What happens to the community of Ottery if they demolish that building or put us out because there is no alternative.” As a multipurpose centre, operating from the building for the past nine years, OWN offers after-school programmes and zumba exercise classes. A feeding scheme is also run by OWN, feeding around 600 people, three times a week. Programs manager, Christo Williams said, “OWN looks into the welfare and wellness of the community of Ottery and surrounding communities.” Private security company, the Red Ant Security Relocation and Eviction Services have been on the property for two weeks, after it was ransacked by thieves. The matter is being heard at the Western Cape High Court and has been postponed to April 29. “We believe even out of court, we can come to an agreement. We want this space to be a hub for development and for upliftment,” said Williams. Western Cape Education Department (WCED) spokesperson, Bronagh Hammond said, the WCED hands back unused buildings that are not used for educational purposes, back to the provincial department of Transport and Public Works. This department did not respond in time to queries sent. Cape Argus