SO AM I by Carlos Mesquita Homeless people are constantly subjected to senseless, inhumane, bias-motivated attacks and are criminalised by a system meant to protect them. The Homes not Handcuffs campaign will soon be launched with a call to the provincial government to work with the Homeless Action Coalition towards a 10-year plan to eradicate homelessness in Cape Town. This can be achieved only if we revisit what we are offering as alternatives to living rough on the streets and why it's not working. Criminalising the homeless will never end homelessness. Another disadvantage is that it has the potential to re-enforce criminal behaviour as a means of survival. The cost of criminalising a homeless person is far greater than providing a roof over their heads. As far back as 2004, a study conducted by the Lewin group found that jail costs are three-times higher than the costs of permanent and supportive housing and twice as high as shelter costs. Almost two decades later and the comparative costs have almost doubled. Criminalising homelessness is also a criminalisation of life. Even if you do not have a home, you have a life. Things homeless people get held, harassed or arrested for: Loitering: If someone does not have a home, the by-laws and written and unwritten expectations in this regard are that people should not sleep, sit, rest or congregate in public spaces. Urinating and defecating in public. Having lived on the streets for close on 6 years, I  guarantee you that in the CBD, Sea Point and Vredehoek there is not one public facility available for the homeless to use. The Grand Parade is the only one in the CBD but only till 4pm. Digging in dustbins: For some, it’s their only way of having a meal for the day. For others, like myself, it becomes our bread and butter. I started a business that kept me going for five years without having to ask for handouts. When I no longer could dig in the bins myself due to time constraints, I paid others to do it for me. It’s really just another form of recycling. Soliciting for money and food: If by a certain time someone hasn’t made any money for the day through their skarrel, they resort to begging. It can take on an aggressive form and that is where I too draw the line. Those individuals should be dealt with by the authorities, because most of them are criminals. Prostitution: This is often a by-product of living on the streets. It is very prevalent among boys and men but not as visible. Herein lies the problem. Sometimes the boys and men arrested for soliciting are the same vulnerable individuals that have just been raped. Disorderly Conduct: This occurs anywhere where excessive drinking and or drugging takes place. Unfortunately, homed people have walls to soften the sound whereas the homeless are in full view of the public when they do it. Most of the “crimes” and expectations mentioned are caused by homelessness or are as a result of being homeless. They are not malicious. The impending launch of the Homeless Action Coalition will see it finding the means to challenge many of the cases that are brought against and criminalises the homeless Part Three continues next week... * Carlos Mesquita and a handful of others formed HAC (the Homeless Action Committee) that lobbies for the rights of the homeless. He also manages Our House in Oranjezicht, which is powered by the Community Chest. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.