Cape Town - A Bishop Lavis family are urgently trying to raise funds for a lifesaving surgery for their infant daughter. Warmly referred to as “Baby Aqeefah”, the spirited 11-month old was given a sign of hope after doctors informed her parents that they would be able to perform the surgery in Joburg, however at a cost of between R350 000 and R500 000. Mother Shanaas Snell, 36, proudly shared that her daughter will be celebrating her first birthday on March 31, after she was informed at 20 weeks into her pregnancy of her unborn daughter’s life-threatening condition. “When she went to Red Cross Hospital, they tried to see what was happening inside of her and saw that her heart was very critical and she spent two weeks there and then went for follow-ups every month. They did some scans and that is when they said to call in my husband because they wanted to have a conversation with both of us.” They were informed that if they could fix Aqeefah’s artery and heart, she could live for 30 to 40 years, but because they were unable to have the operation performed, it was not certain just how long she would be with the family. Through fund-raising efforts, the family was able to take Aqeefah to the Maboneng Heart and Lung Institute at Netcare Sunninghill Hospital last month, where they were informed that surgeons could perform the operation, which should take place as early as possible. “The artery that goes out from the heart, that’s the main thing they need to fix because of the oxygen and blood flow to run through her whole body.” Father Shahid Snell, 36, said, “Aqeefah is a very loving child, she brings a lot of love to the house. We don’t treat her like the doctors said, living day to day, month to month – anytime she could go. We don’t look at it like that.” To donate directly to the Maboneng Heart and Lung foundation: Investec Private Business Account; Branch: Investec Grayston Drive Sandton; Account no: 1001 234 4704. Reference donations with ‘A NEW HEART FOR AQEEFAH’ or donate via Backabuddy http://www.backabuddy.co.za/aqeefah-snell Cape Argus