Cape Town - Seven suspects are expected to appear in court today on charges of business robbery, illegal possession of firearms, ammunition, and stolen property as well as impersonating police officials. Police said the suspects were apprehended in a shack in Mfuleni where they had congregated after robbing a supermarket in Bird Street, Stellenbosch, on Friday morning. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said: “Seven suspects aged between 30 and 59 will appear in court today on charges of business robbery, illegal possession of firearms, ammunition, and stolen property as well as impersonating police officials. “Based on the information we received, the suspects entered a supermarket pretending to be police officers searching the premises for drugs. “However, once inside it became apparent they were not police as they began assaulting the owners, threatening staff, and looting boxes of cigarettes and other items. “Flying squad members alerted to the incident gave chase of the vehicle the suspects had fled the scene in. After a few hours, the suspects were spotted in Mfuleni. R90 000 cash along with, stolen goods as well as three firearms were seized from the shack the suspects were found in." Western Cape Acting Provincial Commissioner Thembisile Patekile has applauded the response by his officers, saying that police acting promptly had led to the arrest of the armed suspects posing as police officials. “If these criminals were not apprehended they would have committed more crimes. What follows is for police to ensure they face the full might of the law,” he said. Meanwhile in the metro, police arrested eight suspects during  weekend crime prevention operations in various local communities. Spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said that during the weekend operations police confisticated a number of unlicensed firearms, ammunition, drugs and stolen copper. “Police arrested several suspects in Mitchell’s Plain, Browns Farm and Harare at the weekend. The suspects were apprehended for separate individual crimes. Once charged all suspects will appear in court.” Cape Argus