Cape Town - To end its campaign on a high note, the Cape Town Central City Improvement District (CCID) has released its list of this week’s go-to spots, featuring a few new businesses. After months of promoting various businesses in the CBD, the CCID’s #ComeBackToTown campaign has come to an end. The retail campaign had been working to highlight and promote different businesses in the CBD each week since its launch in October last year, encouraging locals to support and visit the CBD once again. CCID communications manager Sharon Sorour-Morris said while the CCID’s campaign was officially ending this week, it had been a stellar success in promoting and giving a boost to various businesses in CBD during a difficult time. “The CCID’s #ComeBackToTown campaign was a resounding success. It worked really well to not only promote businesses in the CBD, but to relaunch and reintroduce several businesses back to locals.” “When we launched this retail campaign in October last year, we were looking to highlight the map of the CBD, to promote different businesses in the CBD each week on a platform accessible to locals, and it was hugely successful,” said Sorour-Morris. Last month, the campaign launched a trendy new map of the CBD featuring various businesses. CCID CEO Tasso Evangelinos said: “The map is specific, themed and easy to navigate, providing the consumer with so many choices of places to eat and drink. We see it as a way of supporting local businesses and will hopefully help to keep their doors open and prevent any more closures. There is a real need for us all to assist each other during this pandemic.” “Downtown Cape Town has always been a vibrant destination for visitors wanting to unwind and enjoy themselves. While lockdown and Covid-19 restrictions have put a dampener on trade, we salute our retailers in the CBD who have pulled through spectacularly by reinventing themselves, changing their offering or sticking to their tried-and-tested formula,” said Evangelinos. One of the new businesses featured on the map is that of 24-year-old entrepreneur Josh Sarembock, founder and owner of fable on the corner of Bree and Wale streets. Sarembock says his cocktail bar celebrates South Africa’s rich and culturally diverse background. “I had eight Western Cape myths and legends brought to life in the form of ‘fables’, I had characters drawn up and developed, and then decided how the cocktail would tell the ‘fabled’ experience through flavours or serving methods.” Cape Argus