Cape Town - As tuberculosis (TB) awareness month begins, the South African TB Caucus (SATBC) wants to set up a Western Cape branch that will enable legislators to advocate for the allocation of budgets ring-fenced for TB and to review any legislation that inhibits access to TB services. SATBC, the local chapter of the 2300 member global TB caucus of parliamentarians in 130 countries around the world, made the proposal during a briefing to the standing committee on health. According to the national TB prevalence survey, released in February, 390 000 people lived with the disease across the country during 2018 and over 150000 of them missed screening, diagnosis and/or treatment and were referred to as “missing TB patients”. Once the provincial caucus is established, committee chairperson Wendy Philander (DA) said: “I intend to ask questions in the legislature regarding the number of missing TB patients in the Western Cape during the management of Covid-19. I will also ask how the proposed TB Caucus will supplement the work of the provincial government’s 90-90-90 TB-Strategy.” “It must be stressed that TB is highly transferable and can lead to severe suffering and death in the absence of proper treatment. It is thus crucial to continuously concentrate efforts to screen and treat all cases in our province, working towards eradication of missing patients.” “Whilst the Western Cape holds the highest number of TB patients in the country, the province offers the most effective treatment evident in the fact that it has the lowest TB mortality rate,” said Philander. Committee member Rachel Windvogel said: “The highlight of the briefing for me was the fact that the platform will provide MPs and MPLs the opportunity to champion the response to TB in the country and in their constituencies.” “The proposed Western Cape TB Caucus is intended among others to raise awareness and profile the TB epidemic while at the same time supporting efforts to accelerate the elimination of the disease by 2030 in line with the UN’s sustainable goals,” said Windvogel. Cape Argus