Cape Town - Four relay swimmers are braving cold temperatures and possibly sharks in a feat to raise funds for the JAG Foundation, an organisation that uses sport and play as educational tools to impart life skills to children living in local communities. A group of distinguished relay swimmers is set to attempt the fastest crossing of the 35km ocean swim across False Bay to raise the profile of the swim. Brad Gale, Anthony Pearse and Mark Chamberlin will be joining Barend Nortje, a former record holder of the crossing, as the relay team. They will each swim an hour solo, non-stop, continually rotating until they reach their final destination. Aside from the personal challenge, the swimmers have chosen to raise funds for the JAG Foundation that uses sport to teach life skills, and offers children an alternative life path away from gangsterism, drugs and abuse. The fund-raising initiative has already raised R32 0000. Nortjie, who has notched three successful English Channel crossings, said that while there was a 95% failure rate on the False Bay route, the team was still excited to raise the profile of the swim and open it up to more swimmers of the future. “There’s no secret winning formula, but everything lies in the training. It’s intense indoor swimming for the past eight months, two-hour stints, 28-minute sessions with two-minute breaks. We face several challenges from changing weather conditions where the safety of the swimmers and crew are compromised and the likelihood of a shark sighting,” said Nortjie. Pearse said: “I feel privileged and honoured to be allowed to share this journey with Barend, Brad and Mark. It’s very special to have a shared destination with three outstanding individuals and gentlemen. I’ve previously paddled a surfski across False Bay, so I guess the next challenge up from there is to swim it.” Jag Foundation ambassador Yusrah Francis said: “The undertaking by the team embodies exactly what JAG teaches, ‘defying the odds’. Choosing an alternative life path is not easy when you're faced with a negative influence daily. Drug and alcohol abuse, teenage pregnancy, unemployment, domestic abuse the list is endless.” The exact route of the demanding crossing for this new relay team will only be known to the swimmers at the starting line, as they are in the hands of their decision-making pilot. However, it will either be Miller’s Point to Rooi Els, Miller’s Point to Pringle Bay, or Buffelsbaai in the Cape Point Nature Reserve to Pringle Bay. Cape Argus