Cape Town - The Western Cape High Court dismissed an application by former Beaufort West municipal speaker Sinki Motsoane to be reinstated as a councillor after being redeployed to the mayoral committee by the ANC. Motsoane was suspended on February 11 after he disagreed with a party decision to redeploy him from the speaker’s office to a new function on the mayoral committee. Motsoane then reportedly attended a council meeting called by the new speaker while suspended, and this led to his expulsion on February 17. Motsoane had sued the ANC provincial co-ordinator Ronalda Nalumango, the Beaufort West Local Municipality, the Central Karoo District Municipality and the Independent Electoral Commission to order his reinstatement as a councillor with full salary and benefits. Nalumango said in her affidavit that Motsoane had rushed to court without exhausting the ANC’s internal remedies, including his right to appeal against his suspension and sanction, as provided for in the ANC constitution. Nalumango argued that Motsoane should have instead filed an appeal with the ANC’s national disciplinary committee and exhausted all dispute resolution mechanisms before approaching the courts. Judge Monde Samela, who heard the application, appeared to agree in his ruling when he said: “I had a major problem with this failure of the applicant to exhaust internal remedies.” Commenting on the urgency of the application Judge Samela said: “If one takes into account that he was expelled from the organisation on February 17, and the application was only brought on March 16, one would say: ’yes the application is urgent, but not extremely urgent.’ “Having read the documents filed here and having heard and considered the submissions by  counsel, I am of the view that the applicant failed to make a case for urgency and therefore the matter is struck off the roll for lack of urgency, and no order as to costs,” said Judge Samela. Commenting on the ruling, ANC provincial convener Lerumo Kalako said: “The ANC welcomes the decision. We suspended Motsoane pending the outcome of a disciplinary meeting. He was also barred from attending council meetings. When he attended a meeting called by the newly elected speaker, we resolved to terminate his ANC membership.” Cape Argus