Cape Town - A British-born athlete has taken on the challenge of raising funds for her non-profit organisation based in South Africa that works to provide underprivileged girls with free reusable sanitary pads. Andrea Mason, who spends five months of the year training in Stellenbosch, launched her UK sister initiative Lady Talk Matters in South Africa early last year. The organisation is a sister initiative of her NPO in Britain, which seeks not only to educate young women but also works to empower and raise awareness about female reproductive health. Mason said that she had been inspired to launch the organisation in South Africa when she realised just how prevalent period poverty was in local Cape communities. She said: “I have been coming here for four years to train in summer, so Cape Town has become my second home. Once I discovered the myriad challenges and struggles local women face, it was a natural step to extend the work of Lady Talk Matters from Great Britain to South Africa.” Currently, Lady Talk Matters is run from an established centre in Kayamandi, Stellenbosch, where reusable sanitary pads are manufactured and distributed free of charge to girls and women in the community. “The plan was for this initiative to also serve as a job creation project for women in the community. I wanted to empower them whilst educating and assisting where I could,” said Mason. “That is how we incorporated different elements to this essential project.” To raise money for and awareness of her organisation, Mason, who was diagnosed with cervical cancer, embarks on extreme endurance challenges. Her most popular achievement to date was a five-day effort incorporating swimming the English Channel from Dover in England to Calais in France, cycling 870km to the town of Chamonix in the French Alps, and hiking up Mont Blanc, the highest Alpine peak. On Thursday, Mason will embark on her first South African endurance challenge. She will attempt to swim across False Bay from Miller’s Point to Rooi Els, a distance of 36km, followed by a 360km bike ride to the base of the Seweweekspoort in the Klein Karoo, ending in a hike to the top of Seweweekspoortpiek, the highest mountain peak in the Western Cape. Cape Argus