Cape Town - The Masiphumelele Business Development Forum has come out in support of the area’s youth, saying that its interest lies in protecting and developing the community for the younger generation. This comes after the area’s youngsters petrol-bombed housing started, vandalised some of the units and stole materials. This comes after the City’s plan to build temporary housing on a sports field. Business forum chairperson Klaas Present said: “Our young people are capable of thinking for themselves. Yes, it is unfortunate that the property was destroyed in the process, however, they had raised their concerns prior and were not listened to. “Our young people depend on that sports field, and for them, it’s more than just a recreational space. For it to be taken away and used for housing whilst there is perfectly viable land in the community does not make sense. That’s why we will support them. We feel that if the City was serious about housing black people, they would make good on their promises. We have Siloli, a big parcel of land that is standing idle because plans for it have not amounted to anything. The City had told us that 20% of Siloli would be for a fire station and 80% for future developments. That land can house people in need, there is no need for them to take over a sports field for children.” Meanwhile, the area’s councillor Felicity Purchase said that she was disgusted by the arson attack, which she says was motivated by greed and political alignments. Purchase said: “About 350 temporary housing kits were damaged in the attack. It is completely disgraceful that young people are being used to settle political scores and create havoc that will cost taxpayers and at the expense of vulnerable community members,” said Purchase. According to Purchase, a number of the structures had been prepared to be handed over to some of about 350 families who lost their homes in the fire that ripped through the area in December. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana, said police have opened cases of public violence and malicious damage to property. No arrests have been made, she said. Cape Argus