Cape Town - The first phase of construction of the new Dunoon taxi has been completed and boasts formal trading kiosks, public ablution facilities, three offices, a boardroom, a designated law enforcement office and loading facilities for minibus taxis. The City of Cape Town’s mayco members for Transport, Felicity Purchase, and Urban Management, Grant Twigg, went on a walkabout on Wednesday at the Dunoon Public Transport Interchange (PTI), commonly known as the taxi rank. The construction on the first phase of the PTI, which is located on the corner of Potsdam and Dumani Roads, started in 2019. The cost of this new facility is estimated to be approximately R40 million. “This project is the true epitome of resilience. Despite all the challenges due to protests and the lockdown that was enforced in response to Covid-19, we have managed to complete it, albeit slightly delayed. “It was not easy as we had to increase our security costs, for one, to ensure that we keep to our commitment of delivering a service to our residents at all costs,” said Purchase. “Thousands of commuters from Dunoon rely heavily on the taxis to get to work, school, medical centres, and so forth. “We wanted to improve the commuters’ experience and the convenience of using the minibus taxis. They can now come to a formal structure that is designed to ensure that operations are more organised,” she said. Purchase added that the minibus taxi industry is a key stakeholder in the public transport sphere in South Africa and the City wanted to ensure that taxi operators work from a descent facility, a place they are proud of. Taxis started operating from the facility recently and there’s already a remarkable easing of congestion, especially in the area where this facility is located, she said. The second phase of the project is already in full swing and is scheduled to be completed by June, pending unforeseen delays. Paving and civil works are under way. “Every construction project comes with a level of inconvenience, and this project is no different. I thank our residents and commuters for their patience during the construction period. Together we can make progress possible,” Purchase said. Twigg added: “The Urban Management Directorate welcomes this infrastructural initiative by our Transport colleagues. Providing trading spaces and kiosks for informal traders within the broader development shows the City’s commitment to local economic development. “We would like to encourage all the people in Dunoon, the Informal Trader Association and the taxi industry to take ownership of this project and make it a thriving community space that they can be proud of,” he said. Cape Argus