Cape Town - Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu urged private developers to work with the department to ensure that communities such as Dunoon, or those living in proximity to railway lines and impeding its operations, are provided with dignified social housing. Sisulu was speaking at the handing over of social houses to beneficiaries in Glenhaven, Bellville and was, joined by Human Settlements MEC Tertius Simmers. Sisulu said she hoped that the project would showcase the efficacious partnership with private developers, in providing affordable and dignified social housing. “I'm informed that we’re putting quite a bit of money in this project, but it is money that can be recovered. This is the beauty of social housing institutions. We want to sell the idea of investing in social housing - it's an investment that can’t go wrong.” Sisulu said R3.13 billion had been used for the construction of social housing across the country. “We can double that if we see that this is bearing fruit.” Construction of the Anchorage Social Housing Project in Glenhaven began in October 2018, with 512 units, budgeted at R200 million. The first phase consists of 416 units arranged in four-storey walk-ups in five buildings. Of the 416 units of the first phase, 209 are occupied. The second phase consists of a single four-storey building of 96 units, and is under construction. Simmers said the Covid-19 pandemic had hastened the need to provide affordable social housing. “The reality is that renting a property similar to this on the open market can be quite expensive. The average would have been R7 000 a month in rental alone.These residents pay a lot less, some of the cases are saving more than 50% of what is charged by the private sector.” New beneficiary Rodney Johnson, 70, moved in a week ago. “It's nice. You’ve got an air of independence, it's private, it's a nice area. I just hope it stays like this. I am happy here. Only one thing, it's still in its teething stages and transport to the shops and malls are difficult.” Cape Argus