Cape Town - In commemoration of Freedom Day, the Whitaker Peace & Development Initiative (WPDI) – a non-governmental organisation (NGO) supported by BNP Paribas and its consumer finance arm RCS – has reaffirmed its commitment to support and empower young South Africans. The organisations, which are known for their ideas on how young people can be better empowered, have combined their efforts and resources to work to uplift and empower young people from conflict and violence-affected communities to become community leaders, entrepreneurs, and teachers. Famous American actor and activist and also WPDI founder and CEO, Forest Whitaker, said that the foundation in 2018 committed to enabling young people from the Cape Flats to become community ambassadors for peace and entrepreneurship. “The Cape Flats is home to a combined population of close to 250 000 people. We believe that, with the right tools, these townships can forge innovative solutions in the battle against factors that negatively impact their communities, including gender-based violence (GBV), drug abuse and other social issues,” Whitaker said. RCS CEO Regan Adams said that the WPDI’s success in bringing about change and encouraging peace in the Cape Flats was impressive. “Promoting conflict resolution skills helps to defuse potentially dangerous situations within communities. Bringing groups together and teaching them collectively about topics like conflict resolution, effective communication, and human rights ensures that a broader positive transformation can be fostered. “As a company with a 76% female staff complement, many of whom live in the Cape Flats, this is a cause that is personal to us and we are very committed to supporting it. “It is incredibly rewarding for us to see how the young peace ambassadors have applied their newfound skills and that they are already making a difference if we value our freedom, we must also value the freedom of others, and work to achieve it. As we consider the role of freedom, our most precious property, we must also consider,” said Adams. Cape Argus