Cape Town - Mitchells Plain and Mamre residents have been advised of water outages within their area over the coming days as the City’s Water and Sanitation Department carries out infrastructure maintenance. Water supply in the Mamre area will be affected as the department will be installing a smart pressure-reducing valve on the main water supply on Wednesday, 7 April. This will result in the disruption of the water supply from 11am until 5pm, affecting residents located between Charel Uys Drive and Silverstream Road. “This work should help reduce the likelihood of leaks and pipe bursts in the affected area in future. Smart pressure-reducing valves help prevent pressure fluctuation in the City’s water network, which can weaken pipes over time,” the City said. Residents are advised to prepare in advance for this disruption by storing water in clean, sealed containers. “We also implore residents to make sure that their taps are left in the closed position during this period to prevent any water loss and/or water damage when the supply is restored.” The City said it regretted any inconvenience caused, but added that this device would reduce the possibility of pipe bursts, supply disruptions and water wastage in future. Meanwhile, Mitchells Plain residents will have their water supply disrupted on Thursday, April 22 as the department conducts zero-pressure tests on the main water supply. The water supply disruption will occur from 10am until 5pm, and will affect the Rocklands, Tafelsig, Colorado Park, Lentegeur, Westridge, Strandfontein, Bayview, Eastridge, Beacon Valley, Woodlands, Heinz Park, Mandalay, Westgate, Montrose Park, Lost City, Weltevreden Valley, Watergate and Portlands areas in Mitchells Plain. Zero-pressure testing is part of the installation process for pressure management technology. Tests are done to see if there are any unmapped inflows that need to be taken into account before smart pressure-reducing valves are installed. Residents are also advised to store water in clean, sealed containers for use during this period and to ensure that their taps are closed to avoid water loss and/or damage when the supply is restored. The work forms part of the City of Cape Town’s water demand management strategy. Managing water pressure more effectively reduces the possibility of pipe bursts and water wastage. Cape Argus