Our premier, through no real fault of his own, has a tough decision to make. What to do about Degree Gate? He suspended Bonginkosi Madikizela for allegedly spicing up his CV. Most applauded; I didn’t. I could not, because in my heart I knew the DA would not do the same if the transgressor was of a lighter hue. If you doubt this, ask why Anton Bredell is still in a job? He is, after all, accused of doing much worse. And he’s not the only one. Tertuis Simmers was accused of doing the same, and miraculously “fake” profiles were deleted to cover up credentials that had been posted. The only reason Simmers isn’t kicking his heels at home is that Natasha Mazzone, chief whip of the governing party of the province, belongs to the same WhatsApp group. As if not suspending her isn’t blatant enough, John Steenhuisen has gone out to bat for her. This is the racist extreme that permeates through every DA orifice. White Über Alles. Allan Winde is damned if he does, damned if he doesn’t. But we need to be clear: if Mazzone isn’t given the exact treatment Madikizela received, we will propagate this as the DA official stance – that it is willing to sell all of its much vaunted equal opportunity on the altar of white supremacy. That Simmers’ proximity to Donald Grant is a greater achievement than the alleged BCom he denies he faked. We have to understand that this trio are innocent until proven guilty. That no court has found them guilty. Yet, some appear to be more innocent than others. I do not believe that relieving a man of his capacity to work based on his pigmentation is justifiable. No matter the colour. This is a challenge to our premier: reinstate Mr Madikizela, or fire the whole lot. * Fadiel Adams: President Cape Coloured Congress. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.