Journalism from various newspapers may have missed an investigatory gem of information when not seeing “small fire ignition” on upper campus UCT, my alma mater. The campus Herbert Baker architectural-designed buildings, built of the sandstone granite popularly used in Western Cape classic structures, have an affinity for the thriving vines that cover almost every building on campus. Autumn, the leaves are amber, about to shed, making for student awareness (early warning) that dem books or, in modern day, the online learning has to be prepared, or no DP (duly performed) certificate will be earned to have points allocated for the end of your qualification. The same vines bud in spring, making for early warning to students that the fresh green little leaves should be their reminder the end of your study had better be in process. This innocent (despite erosive effects on the bricks and mortar) vine, became evil, playing an ugly hand of almost demonic proportion providing a killer blow to Jagger Library, and other buildings with their dry leaves fuelling the winddriven fire coming from Rhodes memorial, area. Too late, and UCT lost historically irreplaceable library research material, from a few red, (the colour they are this time of the year) leaves, turned into flying fire dragons setting off sickening damage wherever they settled, be it roof, other dry tinder wood, or just paper rubbish scattered by the wind. Of course, consequences will follow, eradicate the red dragon leaf, roots and all, or hope green leaves will behave, staying around a little longer during the Cape “fire season“. Curiosity prevails re data capturing of the library contents, as was suggested many years ago. That will provide future students with a touch-less opportunity, not ever being able to clutch the leather bound or paper “feel” of the valuable books. Then again, do modern students “ever” touch a book? Thank you for my opportunities UCT. * Dr Johann Anton van Rooyen, Tokai. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.