It was good seeing Allan Boesak on television on Freedom Day discussing what went wrong since 1994 in our country. As the people of South Africa reviewed 27 years of democracy Allan Boesak said that we should change South Africa through organisations outside Parliament. It is interesting to note that when an organisation like the New Unity Movement (NUM) predicted that the negotiations before 1994 were a sham and predicted the difficulties the oppressed people in South Africa would face after the negotiated settlement, the NUM was vilified by organisations that took part in the negotiations. The NUM were called armchair politicians and people who would be left behind in the new SA. Most of the NUM predictions have come true. In struggles all over the world we have seen after years of struggle, fatigue sets in and the oppressors take advantage and make deals with the oppressed which work in the favour of the oppressor. The negotiated settlement after 27 years has: People have realised that you may have the vote but that does not automatically give you the right to have free education from grades 10-12 and free tertiary education. Most of the oppressed have to pay for this education. Those who cannot fall by the wayside and struggle to lead a decent life. We are told by the government that if we push all our efforts in igniting the economy this will lead to education improving. Most people without work certainly do not agree with this stance. In SA the people who are happy are the ones who control the places of work and resist paying workers more because they have to maintain their profits. In SA like in most countries people have to decide on their future. Do we develop a society that encourages people to be innovative but at the same time protect the workers of the country and see that their children attend school, tertiary institutions, that there are jobs and free time to explore their country and the world? We must remould the economy soon to work in the favour of all the citizens in our country or we are going to stare down the barrel of a gun. It took Allan Boesak 27 years to realise that the new state was not serving the interests of the majority of South Africans. Let us hope that there are more South Africans out there willing to change direction and work in the interests of all South Africans. It is never too late to change! * Brian Isaacs obtained a BSc (UWC) in 1975, a Secondary Teacher’s Diploma in 1976, BEd (UWC) in 1981, and MEd (UWC) in 1992. He is a former matriculant, teacher and principal at South Peninsula High School. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.