Cape Town - Rampant crime in Samora Machel has brought the community to its knees with the provision of basic services compromised. Last month Weltevreden library was broken into and thieves removed the burglar bars, smashed the windows and stole a desktop valued at R7 000. The Weltevreden Valley clinic has been closed after gun wielding assailants stormed the clinic and robbed the staff of their belongings last week. On Tuesday the City’s water and sanitation staff members, repairing a collapsed sewer pipeline, were attacked and one member shot, resulting in services being temporarily withdrawn from the area. Ward councillor Sithembiso Mzobe said the suspension of the basic services had greatly affected the community. “I had previously informed the City that when their officials come to our areas they should inform me, but they don't. We condemn crime on a daily basis and have engaged with the Samora police station commander to table their measures to fight the increasing crime in the area. “We are avoiding a situation where the community takes the law into their hands. The streets are dark as the criminals have cut the cables to enable them to commit crimes. We have had a lot of incidents but no one seems to be arrested, however we condemn any crime that hinders the community from accessing services whether health or education,” said Mzobe. Mayco member for community services and health Zahid Badroodien said the clinic staff were traumatised and employee assistance and debriefing sessions were provided. “Staff fear for their safety and meetings were held with all role players including the health committee, the police, law enforcement, ward councillor, union and staff,” he said. Badroodien said the City was currently in discussions on how to continue to provide the ARV services. “The community was informed and we further request that all clients attend the Colorado decanting site until a sustained safety plan is in place. The community will be kept informed of the progress. The City apologizes for the inconvenience. Weltevreden Library was only closed for a few hours after it was burgled,” he said. Badroodien said while the library was open and fully operational final damage assessments for the broken windows and burglar bars must still be submitted. Cape Argus