by KRISTIN ENGEL The Annual Cableway Charity Challenge is going virtual, and aims to raise R1 million in funding to assist a number of charitable organisations. As many as 137 athletes are already participating in the nine-day challenge that began on April 10. The challenge urges locals in Cape Town to support and sponsor participants to do as many laps as possible up Platteklip Gorge, summiting Table Mountain and descending from the top using the cable car. To track their progress, participants are able to record their laps on the free-to-use mobile app, Strava. The organisations that will benefit from this fundraiser include Wilderness Search and Rescue, Ons Plek (a Child and Youth Care Centre), Home from Home (and NPO which provides community based foster homes in the Western Cape) and the Cape Town Environmental Education Trust (CTEET). Tanya Townsend from Home From Home, already a trail runner, said that taking part in this event had afforded her the opportunity to bond with her colleagues and one of their athletic matriculants, Amaza Sethu. “Amaza, one of our foster youth (19) and I are so excited to compete together and have been training hard. It’s daunting but going to be great fun,” she said.  Before the pandemic, the challenge used to run for one day from sunrise till sunset and the goal was to see how many times participants could do the trail during that time frame. Now it has changed into a 9-day event, allowing ample time to participate and adhere to the COVID-19 protocols. Wahida Parker, MD of the Table Mountain Aerial Cableway Company, says the Table Mountain Cableway Charity Challenge is a perfect example of how people can connect with each other at virtual and hybrid events in a socially distanced manner. “The initiative is a testimony of individual endurance and the power of collaboration. The event has made a significant impact in the lives of those less fortunate and is only possible because of the combined effort of everyone involved,” says Parker. Treasurer at the JDI Foundation Trust and official organizer of the race, Tracy Le Roux said that so far they have managed to raise R875 000 and it is a testament to the enthusiastic attitudes of the participants. “The camaraderie shown over the past few days has been overwhelming. The support has been incredible and we cannot be more grateful.” kristin.engel@inl.co.za Cape Argus