In a separate incident, three men linked to a taxi association in Cape Town have been arrested by police following an investigation into an illegal scheme in Belleville. Cape Town - Seven suspects are scheduled to appear in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court this morning over a business robbery in Hout Bay. The suspects who are charged with breaking into business premises, possession of prohibited firearm and possession of ammunition and pointing of firearm reportedly stole bottles of perfume and men’s cologne and packed it in big bags. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said: “Seven suspects will appear in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Monday, April 12, 2021, on charges of a break-in of business premises, possession of prohibited firearm and possession of ammunition and pointing of a firearm. “The suspects aged between 29 and 40-years-old were apprehended by police whilst attempting to evade police at the scene of the crime.” In a separate incident, three men linked to a taxi association in Cape Town have been arrested by police following an investigation into an illegal scheme in Belleville. The suspects aged between 26 and 40 were apprehended by police for kidnapping an Uber driver in Belleville on Thursday. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said Bellville police officials arrested three suspects on Friday following the kidnapping and extortion of an e-hailing taxi driver in Bellville on Thursday. She said: “The suspects aged 26, 28, and 40 believed to be affiliated to a local taxi association are alleged to have posed as clients luring the e-hailing taxi operator to a specific location in Bellville. On arrival, they ordered the driver to drive to the taxi rank where a substantial amount of money was demanded his release. “Bellville police were alerted and their investigations led to the arrest of the suspects and the impoundment of a Toyota Avanza, a vehicle believed to have been used in a similar incident involving another e-hailing taxi vehicle also in Bellville a week ago.” In Ravensmead, police arrested a 29-year-old man for dealing in drugs. The suspect was arrested by police with a consignment of 75 000 mandrax tablets, with an estimated value of R3 million, on Robert Sobukwe Road, Ravensmead. Cape Argus