Cape Town - Iziko Museums will be celebrating Freedom Day on Tuesday, April 27, by providing visitors with the freedom to participate in one, or all, of their Freedom Day events. The public is invited to join Iziko Museums for a virtual public discussion, a new exhibition virtual launch as well as free entry to selected Iziko Museums. South Africa’s first democratic election was a momentous occasion that remains etched in the hearts, minds and memories of citizens. Across the nation, individuals gathered at polling stations, queueing for hours on April 27, 1994, to make their mark. Since then, millions of South Africans have been born free into a constitutional democracy. But what does freedom mean today, 27 years after our first democratic elections were held? Freedom to participate: Join Iziko Museums, Dr Sizwe Mpofu-Walsh, Nkosikhulule Xhawulengweni Nyembezi and Ms Lebohang Liepollo Pheko for a virtual public discussion as they unpack the meaning of Freedom Day in the time of Covid-19 and a democratic South Africa. Share your thoughts, ideas and experiences at 11am during this live Zoom event; register here to participate: http://bit.ly/FreedomDay_ZoomRegistration. For additional event information, contact Dr Wandile Kasibe on 021 481 3814 or at wkasibe@iziko.org.za. Freedom to explore our history: Join curator and author, Lynn Carneson, Judge Albie Sachs, Melene Rossou, Wesley Neumann and Zandile Tshamlambo for an intergenerational conversation at 2pm for the virtual launch of Red in the Rainbow – a new multimedia exhibition featuring graphic, video and sound material, as well as a reconstruction of a replica prison cell from the 1970s, set to open at the Iziko Slave Lodge on April 27. Register here: http://bit.ly/RedInTheRainbow_ZoomRegistration. A new exhibition, titled Men Affirming Dignity (Mad), also opens at the Iziko Slave Lodge on April 27. Mad is the South African Faith and Family Institute’s (Saffi) travelling multimedia exhibition which starts its journey at the Iziko Slave Lodge. Mad seeks to amplify the expressed humanity in the narratives and histories of men who live their lives cultivating Ubuntu by affirming their own dignity as well as that of women, children and other men in relationships and communities. Freedom to visit: Explore selected Iziko Museums for free on Freedom Day – this includes the Iziko South African Museum, the Iziko South African National Gallery, the Iziko Slave Lodge and the Iziko Bo-Kaap Museum. The Museums are open from 10am to 2.30pm on Freedom Day, and the Isam, Isang and ISL have two 90-minute timed access sessions, at 10am and 12.30pm, with cleaning in-between. Plan your visit here: https://www.iziko.org.za/whats-on Covid-19 protocols in place when visiting the museum to ensure the safety of both staff and visitors. Iziko has been online and working to showcase its unique work and collections on the website. Visit www.iziko.org.za to explore more, or visit the museum’s social media pages on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and TikTok. Cape Argus