The current, political trend displayed by Julius Malema and the EFF of condemning anyone who is not on the side of ANC government on "land expropriation without compensation" is negative and destructive. This intolerant behaviour stands in stark contrast to the approach that allows all citizens’ voices to be heard and welcomes vigorous and open debate on issues. Often times the fighters invoke Pan Africanist leader Robert Sobukwe or Black Consciousness leader Steve Biko to explain their political behaviour. But neither Sobukwe nor Biko were intolerant of different views. This was clear both in their political writings and in their personal relationships. Sobukwe described his attitude to white South Africans thus: “I know I have been accused of being anti-white, not only the government but also by others. But there is not one who can quote any statement of mine that bears that out. When I say Africa for the Africans I mean those, of any colour, who accept Africa as their home. Colour does not mean anything to me.” Black Consciousness leader Steve Biko wrote that "being black is not a matter of skin pigmentation – being black is a reflection of a mental attitude". He repeatedly called for the creation of a non-racial, egalitarian society. EFF and ANC political intolerance has been manifested through the racial labelling of political critics of government as traitors and sell-outs who are in cohorts with white monopoly capital. On October 27, we have a chance as a nation to show the world what a society looks like that embraces diversity and find a way to leverage it for the bettering of all who call South Africa home. This can only happen when we find ways to work together that are based on respect of our differences. * Thulani Dasa, Khayelitsha. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.