by David Biggs There’s an old Jewish curse which goes: “May you live in interesting times.” Nobody will deny that 2020 was “an interesting year”. And if you’re reading this it means you’ve survived that cursed year. Well done! I wish all our readers a less interesting New Year in 2021. One thing is certain: this brave new year will present each one of us with many ways in which to make life just a little better for those less fortunate than ourselves. Millions of our fellow South Africans have lost their jobs, their homes and members of their families during the Covid-cursed year. If we are lucky enough to have survived, now’s the time to share our good fortune. Many of us are surrounded by a huge clutter of stuff we really don’t need — clothes we haven’t worn for years, pots and pans we keep “just in case we have a dinner party for 16 people”, extra blankets folded away in case it snows and shoes that went out of fashion when Elvis was king. Let’s make one of our New Year resolutions to do more sharing. Sort out those cluttered cupboards and take bags of no-longer-needed stuff to a nearby church or charity for distribution to the people who really need it. Make a point of finding out which organisations in your neighbourhood are collecting goods for redistribution or sale. You may not think a pair of out-grown roller skates would be of much use to a homeless person, but a charity shop might be able to sell them and convert the money into food or clothing. So, while we might mutter about the horrible changes the coronavirus has wrought in our lives, let’s be just a little grateful that it’s given us a chance of being better, more caring members of the human family. Okay. Sermon over. I wish all our readers a happy and healthy New Year filled with friendship, love and laughter, and an occasional glass of good wine if you’re not driving. Last Laugh After 35 years of marriage a millionaire went to his lawyer and said he wanted to change his will. “I want to leave everything to my wife,“ he said, “on the condition that she remarries within two months after my death.” “That’s an unusual request,“ said the lawyer. “What’s the reason for it?” “I want at least one person to be sorry I died...” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.