Cape Town - A group of Khoisan (namely Khoe and |Xam) occupying a section of Table Mountain appeared at the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday morning, on what the group has referred to as “illegitimate charges”. Twelve people were arrested on Friday at Orange Kloof, Table Mountain. Two people had been released and bail was arranged for the remaining 10 at R500 each on Saturday. The occupation had first begun on October 24, with around a dozen people settling at Cecilia Forest. The group was charged with housebreaking, malicious damage to property and trespassing, according to advocate Venice Burgins. Burgins believes that the members are being criminalised for practising their culture and traditions on Table Mountain, and that their arrest was a clear indication of it, calling it a gross violation of human rights. “We are all mind-boggled at those charges. All the Khoisan did was to practise its cultures, norms and traditions in the mountains as it was allowed in all the other provinces. Why criminalise the Khoisan?” She said the group faced further discrimination and hostility, after security refused them access to the court because of their traditional attire, claiming it went against the Covid-19 regulations. “This the unfortunate reality of colonisation which captured our courts. Saps were called in and after a huge commotion they all were allowed into the courtroom.” She called on all Khoisan clans to unify so that the incident was treated as a matter of urgency. Tazlin Maasdorp from the Gorogoqua tribe and the United Action Group said that her husband was one of those arrested. “As Khoisan activists, with a collective of activists from various tribes, our struggle is to fight for our Aboriginal rights, land and the freedom to practice our traditions. Hence the Table Mountain (Hoerikwaggo) reclaiming and spiritual practices. We feel like an isolated group of people in a so-called diverse country.” SANParks spokesperson Lauren Clayton said they could not comment on the matter at this stage as it was still under investigation. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana confirmed that 12 people aged between 30-60 were arrested for housebreaking, malicious damage to property and trespassing. “The suspects allegedly broke into a house and they were on a private property and they damaged the property,” said Rwexana. Cochoqua Project Co-ordinator Shaun MacDonald said the collective rejected the legitimacy of the charges and said they would pursue all legal avenues, all the way to the Constitutional Court. The matter has been postponed to January 28. Cape Argus