Cape Town - The City of Cape Town has said the capacity of dams supplying the Cape Town metro decreased by almost two percent in the past week bringing the dam levels to 90.7%. In a statement the City said: “The total capacity of dams supplying the Cape Town metro decreased by 1.9%  in the last week, from 92.6% the previous week. At the same time last year, dam levels were at 75%.” “Daily water consumption for the same period increased to 754 million litres per day, compared to 712 million litres the week before,” said the statement. Meanwhile, the South African Weather Services have warned of a “heat wave” of persistently high temperatures expected over the southern Cape Winelands District and Worcester until Monday January 11. As a result, the City is reminding residents that a number of permanent regulations in the City’s water by-law still apply, despite water restrictions being lifted from November 1, last year. With regards to outdoor water use and groundwater, the City said: “Watering is only allowed before 9am or after 6pm in order to avoid evaporation losses in the heat of the day. This applies to watering with municipal drinking water, and is also recommended for alternative water e.g. borehole and well-point water.” “Automated sprinkler systems, where permitted, must be able to be correctly positioned and be able to be adjusted to prevent water wastage and hosepipes used for watering or washing vehicles, boats and caravans (when permitted) must be fitted with a controlling device such as a spray nozzle or automatic self-closing device,” said the City. The City’s regulations also ban the hosing down of hard-surfaced or paved areas with municipal drinking water and demand that outdoor taps, except those on residential properties, must be secured to prevent unauthorised use. As for commercial car washes the statement said: “These industries must comply with industry best-practice norms regarding water usage per car washed  for instance recycling and re-using a minimum of 50% of the water used.” Cape Argus