by Gillion Bosman Scenes outside the SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) venues last week showed not just the act of an incapable national government, but the act of a government increasingly detached from the real experiences of vulnerable residents. While Minister Lindiwe Zulu sat inside a police vehicle protecting herself from those on the outside, elderly, disabled and individuals with chronic health conditions were left to sleep outside Sassa offices. This all in the hope of receiving a desperately needed safety net in the form of a social grant. These same vulnerable residents were later sprayed with police water cannons.  It was truly her “Marie Antoinette” moment. For many years the ANC has enjoyed the protection and resources of the state while those it is meant to protect and serve remain on the outskirts of this protection. While Minister Zulu went to her luxury hotel and enjoys the benefits of her position, the problems for the vulnerable continue. We must therefore ask the fundamental question: Who is really under the protection of the state? 53 000 temporary disability applications lapsed in the Western Cape alone, putting so many livelihoods at risk during a pandemic. I have personally spoken with some of these residents and heard their plight in being told to come back later in the year – as far away as June – to fetch medical application forms. Only after returning these would they stand a chance of approval. It may take upwards of six months to receive such grants again. This is the act of an uncaring government, and residents deserve better. My goal as the chairperson of the standing committee on social development is to use the next urgent meeting to get conclusive answers from Sassa Western Cape regarding grants in the province. This is an opportunity for Sassa to provide a reasonable way forward, and not snub the committee like it has in the past. I appeal to Minister Zulu and Sassa to consider the plight of the many recipients of Temporary Disability Grants and their need to feed their families and see to their medical conditions. As we await the expiration of the Social Relief of Distress grant, we will add another 400 000 hungry, destitute and desperate people to the Sassa queues. National government should take heed of the provincial government when looking for inspiration on serving its residents. The Department of Social Development recently confirmed that R61 million had been prioritised for food relief in the province. This comes as vulnerable people face food shortages during this pandemic. An excellent example of a responsive and caring government. * Gillion Bosman, MPL. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.