Cape Town - A recently launched campaign #HospitalHeroes is calling on communities to help support its goal to show appreciation to health-care workers, working on the front line in their local communities. #HospitalHeroes in partnership with Gift of The Givers recognises and appreciates health-care workers, who have been working on the front line since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country. #HospitalHeroes spokesperson Khilona Radia said: “We founded the #HospitalHeroes campaign in response to the overwhelming support and appreciation Cape Town communities wanted to show to health-care workers, working on the front line during such unprecedented times. “The campaign was to not only show our appreciation for our health-care workers but also raise awareness about their sacrifice and commitment. “Communities wanted to show their support and appreciation and we created a platform for them to do so.” “A lot of people have come forward in support of the campaign, donating everything from baked goods, to drinks and snacks that will keep our front-liners going as they work to heal our nation.” The campaign which was launched on Wednesday, January 20, 2021, will today be making its first drop-off at Somerset hospital, before continuing its journey to five other district hospitals across Cape Town. “This campaign is open to other communities as well, If a community collective wants to appreciate health-care workers in their own area, say in Paarl or Worcester they would be more than welcome to do so.” “Residents can collect supplies amongst themselves and approach their local hospital or local clinic on how to safely do a drop-off.” GOTG spokesperson Ali Sablay said: “We as Gift of the Givers see this as a great initiative, as we know our health care workers have been the heroes during this pandemic. “They have been working tirelessly to support our communities. “They are putting their own lives at risk to protect us, we see their sacrifice and the emotional toll this has taken on them and we wanted to support them and show our appreciation,” said Sablay. Cape Argus