by Mike Fraser Our President delivered a very emotional address at his family meeting on Monday 27 December 2020. Almost in tears. The response from some fellow South Africans is that our president is faking his emotions, that this is a sign of a weak leader. That a president of a country should lead from a position of strength and confidence. This is that very popular mantra especially in our country, that real men don't cry, that we men should always put up a brave face and suppress our real emotions, even when we are breaking inside. This expectation from us men places a huge burden on us. A burden that many of us can't effectively deal with. And because we don't have the tools to deal with it in a meaningful way, we react to it in a destructive, often violent way, with devastating consequences. Human beings are naturally wired with emotions. Emotions about Self and those whom we engage and interact with. Life is all about relationships with our fellow human beings. And relationships are built on emotions. How I feel about myself and the people that I engage and interact with. At all levels. Our president engages with us in what he calls a family meeting, and   remind  us about the surge in infections and the many deaths in our country, and begging us  South Africans to take care of ourselves, to curb the spread of the virus. He begs  to act responsibly. When in doing so, President Cyril Ramaphosa is ridiculed as being weak, we South Africans need to reflect on our collective psyche as a nation. Many of our South African men are broken because we have been conditioned that cowboys don't cry. We men need to learn that there is much power in expressing our vulnerability. Thanks President Cyril Ramaphosa for expressing your vulnerability as a man and a leader of our beloved country. * Mike Fraser, Pniel. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).