by Colin Bosman History teaches us that what we do in life is important but it is the legacy that we leave behind that defines who we were and what we stood for. Any good that Donald Trump did for America will forever be clouded by the dark legacy that he leaves behind as he vacates the White House. History will judge him harshly in the years ahead despite the fact the more than 80 million Americans voted for him during the final electoral process. It’s as clear as mud as to why Trump enjoyed such huge success and perhaps voting for him was more a vote for the Republican Party and against the appointment of a Democrat, than for Trump himself. This seems to be the only logical answer. Those, however, that believe Donald Trump is done and dusted are in for a shock. People like Trump never ever give up.  The likelihood of him fading into oblivion to play golf all day and write a book is probably zero. He will more likely go back to the drawing board and attempt to regroup his support base within the Republican Party.  His fate lies with them. As for the Democrats under Joe Biden, it remains to be seen what they bring to the table once the high fives and whoop whoops die down. Let’s not forget that Biden’s ticket to the White House was never based on his record in government but on the fact that Donald Trump had to be removed from office at any cost, even if it meant electing the local corner supermarket owner into office. The million dollar question is, what now? With America divided down the middle like never before in their history, will the Democrats under an ageing and stuttering Joe Biden be able to mend the deep divide in the country or will Donald Trump lurk around in the shadows firing broadsides at the new dispensation? Or will the Republican Party simply put Trump out to pasture? To coin a phrase, let’s watch this space. * Colin Bosman, Newlands. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.