Cape Town - Active Covid-19 cases in the Cape Town metro are moving from a peak and towards a plateau. This is according to Health Department Head, Dr Keith Cloete. Cloete was joined by Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo to brief the parliamentary portfolio committee on health along with its Eastern Cape counterpart, yesterday. Dr Cloete said an overall stabilisation could be seen in the metro in areas of Klipfontein, Mitchells Plain and southern and western parts of the metro. Khayelitsha has seen a drop in cases for the past two weeks. “The eastern and northern parts of the metro and Tygerberg are not experiencing (as much of) a stabilisation as those in the other parts of the metro. Covid-19 cases in the West Coast are still increasing and have not quite reached its peak yet,“ said Dr Cloete. Dr Cloete said the festive season continued to affect the data. “Provincial, city, and district management centres are co-ordinating a systematic enforcement of Covid-19 regulations, along with SAPS,” said Cloete. “In terms of surveillance and response we set ourselves to, (the aim) is to get an intelligence system, so it's really about setting up a data system to be able to track where infections happen and respond.” Analysing the death data, Cloete said the age group 60-69 was still the biggest proportion of people dying due to Covid-19. “Our data shows, although there’s more young people dying, the overall number of cases is so high that the proportion of people between the ages of 20-39 is actually lower than in the first wave. In 40-49 it's very similar or lower than the first wave and in the later age groups it's very much the same.” Diabetes is still the leading risk factor in deaths other than age, with hypertension also featuring quite high. HIV is less common in deaths during the second wave due to areas worst hit in the first wave having a higher HIV prevalence, said Cloete. Mbombo said the country’s preparedness for the worst case scenario at the start of the pandemic last year assisted in its response to face the second wave. Cape Argus