“Annus Horribilis” was a phrase used by Queen Elizabeth in 1992 to describe her worst year ever with the collapse of three of her children’s marriages. Here in South Africa, as we wave goodbye to 2020, the queen’s words come to mind. 2020 was our very own “annus horribilis”. Covid-19 destroyed the economy, collapsing thousands of businesses, killing thousands of people and causing havoc in our lives. What started as a 3-week lockdown has gone on for almost a year. Our return to adjusted level 3 status remains the fault of those who refused to adhere to the rules of physical distancing, wearing masks and hand sanitation. It is crystal clear that those that thumbed their noses at the authorities simply followed the example set by our many corrupt politicians who wrote the book on flashing the middle finger to the rule of law. Their war cry became “If JZ (Jacob Zuma) can do it then so can we”. It’s common knowledge that the rot always starts at the top and filters down. This rot has now infiltrated society across the land. Like a cancer, corruption can only be checked by cutting out the rot. Fifty percent of the Big 6 that sit around the NEC table pretending to care for the good of the nation are as fake as a 3-dollar bill and need to be removed from office. If they believe that only ANC branches can remove them from office then they are living in Cuckooland. As we move into the new year with the Zondo Commission coming to a close, the information gathered therein must be used to rid the Cabinet of those who have robbed the fiscus of over R1.5 trillion since state capture began with tender fraud, the Gupta fiasco, the Vrede dairy farm debacle, the Free State asbestos roof rip-off, PPE fraud, the destruction of SAA, etc. Those pretenders sitting around Cyril Ramaphosa’s table have much to answer for in the new year. 2021 will without a doubt be a watershed year as prosecutors prepare for the battle against corrupt politicians. Can they win?  An unequivocal yes, as history shows good always triumphs over evil. * Colin Bosman, Newlands. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).