Cape Town - Police in Lingelethu are looking for witnesses, who may have information regarding the murder of a young man whose body was found burnt beyond recognition in Graceland, Khayelitsha on Sunday morning. The deceased, who might have been a victim of vigilante justice, was found with a tyre around his neck. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “Police in Lingelethu have opened a case of murder, after a body of an unidentified man in his twenties was found in Mississippi Street, Graceland, Khayelitsha.” “The deceased was found burnt, and seemingly constrained by a tyre. Circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation and no arrests have been made yet.” Meanwhile, the investigation into the cache of guns and ammunition found in the Raubenheimer Dam in the Little Karoo, by a municipal worker who was conducting the dam levels check, is said to be intensifying. In a statement, police spokesperson, Malcolm Pojie, said a municipal worker had come across the ammunition during a routine inspection of the dam on Friday morning, January 8. The municipal worker who had returned to the dam after water levels dropped found the mass of illegal weapons and ammunition. “Members of the K-9 unit, police divers and crime intelligence later found a further set of firearms in the water, including rifles, a shotgun and close to 9 000 rounds of ammunition.” In Ocean View and Lavender Hill, Metro law enforcement have intensified their operations in gang hot spots, in efforts to quell the rise in violent incidents. Safety and Security Mayco JP Smith said the directorate had seen the additional visible operations move as fitting after the hostile shoot-out between rival gangs in Ocean View last week. Smith said: “We have stepped up our crime prevention operations in Ocean View and Lavender Hill. After the shooting incident in Ocean View last week we will be conducting more routine operations in these communities. “While we cannot unfortunately dedicate a full-time deployment to these areas, we will move forward with other initiatives aimed at tackling crime in local communities,” said Smith. In a separate incident police confiscated 6 000 Mandrax tablets worth R300 000 in George. A 35-year-old man was arrested on charges of dealing in drugs during a chase on Knysna Road in George. Cape Argus