The Department of Employment and Labour, and under direct control of the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration, has a body called the “Essential Services Commission” (ESC). Its director is advocate Luvuyo Bono. The ESC receives applications from business community or individual entities to have certain services declared essential. The ESC does an incredibly interesting job. It looks  carefully at a particular service and determines whether the case is worthwhile and whether it should conduct a proper hearing over and above the investigations. Once a service is declared an essential service, it means the employees will not be allowed to go on strike. Before the ESC can be activated there must be a reasonable request in terms of the Labour Relations Act of 1995.  Once the application is deemed reasonable, the commission will investigate whether certain services should be designated as essential. Hearings scheduled will be published in the Government Gazette. Written submissions from interested parties will be invited. Interested parties can actually make oral representations by applying to the ESC to address it. Many years ago, I was involved on behalf of a few old-age homes which had complained that strike action would create havoc. Indeed, if staff who feed the aged in the home would strike, it would be incredibly difficult to maintain the service and this could lead to death or injury. Likewise, there are many other industries in South Africa also deemed essential services. As a frequent flyer, I was about to travel from Cape Town to Johannesburg in the beginning of November 2019.  While travelling to the airport, I heard a radio interview with the National Union of Metal Workers of South Africa whose members had embarked on strike action against SAA.  The union spokesperson warned passengers not to fly on SAA, threatening them that their safety would not be guaranteed.  The worry was that the individuals involved in the maintenance service at SAA had gone on strike. South Africa has always had a fantastic air safety record and a threat of this nature was extremely unpleasant.  On my return to Cape Town, I had discussions with a colleague, Dr Michael Cardo, who offered to draft an application to the ESC to apply for the Aviation Maintenance Service to be declared an essential service. Once the maintenance had been declared an essential service, they would not be entitled to go on strike, despite the right to strike in our legislation. This would mean that those in the maintenance of aircraft during a general strike would have to continue working and would have to ensure that the maintenance is perfect. This application was signed off by both Dr Michael Cardo and I, and we submitted it to advocate Bono. In turn advocate Bono’s energetic staff set down dates for hearings and written submissions throughout August 2020. I chose to appear at one of these sittings to give evidence. I explained why aviation maintenance was so necessary and that shoddy maintenance would lead to accidents and death. I explained that I was concerned with the events that happened before and during the strike by SAA employees. I also said that I was concerned that if employees that performed maintenance services went on strike this would pose a serious safety risk to users. I submitted that SAA always had a fantastic maintenance service and the interruption of this service would constitute a serious threat to safety and life of the users. I asked the ESC to consider that the maintenance services in aviation should be designated as an essential service. Interestingly, SAA Technical also made written and oral submissions in support of this designation. They stated that every aircraft is issued with an initial certificate of airworthiness at the end of the manufacturing process. They are required to maintain airworthiness in accordance with the original equipment manufacturers requirements.  This air worthiness is maintained through a series of scheduled maintenance checks consisting of periodic inspections performed over the aircraft period of operation. The technical team said that for aircraft to remain serviceable, there is a requirement for the continued air worthiness to be maintained based on the respective technical requirement as well as regulatory requirements mandated by the authorities. They went on to explain in detail that every aircraft has to be checked and the necessary maintenance has to be carried out. They stated: “If the service is interrupted the results could be catastrophic if there is a fault that is not picked up before the flight takes off”. The Airports Company of South Africa (ACSA) also sent in representations explaining why the maintenance service was so necessary.  ACSA wanted to extend the concept of essential service to other services, including jet fuel, plumbing, waste and infrastructure. Strangely, there were no submissions from Labour. It should be noted that in terms of the Constitution, every worker has a right to strike.  However, the rights in the Bill of Rights may be limited in reasonable and justifiable terms. In our Labour Relations Act, no person may take part in a strike if that person is engaged in an essential service. We all accept that in South Africa strike action is an important element of collective bargaining and it is recognised as a primary mechanism through which workers exercise collective power. It is therefore understandable that only employees who are truly performing an essential service may be prohibited from striking. Often, we find essential and non-essential services workers working side by side in the same institution. The ESC must be satisfied that the interruption of a said service is likely to endanger life, personal safety or health of the whole or part of the population. They then can declare those employees involved in that service to be essential service employees and therefore they cannot strike. In this instance, it was undisputed that aircraft maintenance is an essential service.  An unsafe aircraft, if operated, will lead to loss of life or to injury to persons using the aircraft. The panel hearing the motivations then determined that the maintenance service rendered to the aircraft will be an essential service. The panel was of the view that the maintenance services in aviation of aircraft are an essential service and the parties in that industry who rendered the services would have to negotiate and conclude a minimum service agreement. The application to the ESC was successful and there was a very happy outcome. * Michael Bagraim is a labour lawyer. He can be contacted at michael@bagraims.co.za. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).