 by Farouk Cassim It will be churlish in the extreme to doubt either the good intentions or the promises of Minister of Health Zweli Mkhize in respect of the vaccine roll out for South Africa. He has led from the front and his bona fides are well established. It is commendable that the government has set a minimum target of 67% of the population to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. The first batch will be secured through Covax to target 10% of the population. The give away line that we as South Africans need to focus on is the one relating to the minister’s confirmation that the outstanding amount after the deposit of around R1.8 billion has been allocated via the Solidarity Fund. Furthermore, the minister announced that the Council for Medical Schemes was engaging various medical schemes to allow for vaccines and other therapeutics to be part of the prescribed minimum benefits that they offer. The minister has already signed off on amendments to the regulations in this regard. Most interestingly, the minister made it known that the total financing arrangement to procure vaccines will include the coming on board of medical schemes and businesses. Why should we be focussing on that part of the minister’s statement? The national government is broke. It struggled to pay Covax the deposit that was required. It is now looking for donations to generate funds to obtain supplies of a suite of vaccines in adequate quantity. While the Solidarity Fund will be seeking donations from those with deep pockets, it will help enormously if Gift of the Givers could get a mandate to open a fund for small donors. It has a reputation for honesty and integrity that South Africans will easily endorse. Those who can donate amounts of R50 and more could help to swell the kitty. Once the required quantum is reached, the other issue that needs the government’s scrutiny is the pricing of the vaccine. The Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine according to an EU minister is being offered to European countries at R32.28 per dose. This is way below the asking price of the other pharma companies. With money as scarce as it is and the government’s reputation of handling public money as bad as it is, we must collectively insist on knowing what price our government is going to be paying to procure the vaccines we are getting. We must then compare that price with the price that the EU is paying. The money issue must now become the central issue in getting the vaccines to our shores. * Farouk Cassim,  Cope. Milnerton. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).