Cape Town - Metrorail and the Transport and Public Works MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela have revealed that they are planning to re-introduce a train service from Cape Town to Langa, which is expected in the next two weeks. Acting Metrorail regional manager, Raymond Maseko said they had done a lot of infrastructure rehabilitation on the rail and the technical teams were still busy with the tests. However, he said they, the City and the Transport and Public Works Department, were in consultation with the communities living on rail track land in an effort to relocate them. This was revealed yesterday, when Maseko and Madikizela inspected the rail reserve in Jan Smuts Drive between Langa and Mutual train stations. Madikizela said the Western Cape government had been working closely with the national state-owned entity responsible for rail services, the Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa), to assist in the restoration of the collapsed rail service in the city and the broader province. Madikizela said rail passengers in the Western Cape faced an impossible situation of having either no rail service or an unreliable service. “Travel times are long and planning around the commute is difficult. This not only undermines the dignity of our residents, but it also makes accessing important economic opportunities even more difficult. It is therefore critical that we do everything possible to fix the rail network in this province,” said Madikizela. He said earlier, the province participated through the establishment of the Rail Enforcement Unit in the expansion of security services for the rail network. The province contributed both financially and in terms of planning and organisation. “We are once again providing support. The Department of Transport and Public Works has made R10 million available and entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with Prasa to co-operate and co-ordinate efforts for the purposes of improving passenger rail services, operations and management, infrastructure and assets, information and monitoring and safety and security on the entire rail network." He said the period of the agreement was from the date of signature, May 28, 2020 to March 31, 2022. United Commuters Voice spokesperson João Jardim however said they had not been informed of any issues pertaining to the rail network. “What we do know is that there are shenanigans going on inside Metrorail. The infrastructure is being damaged on purpose by individuals, and we can only speculate that it could possibly be another Metrorail employee/s just as was the case last month,” said Jardim. Cape Argus