by Carlos Mesquita I am tempted to start with dramatic music and the words… “and so are the days of our lives”. This is my third instalment of a column that almost wrote itself three weeks ago when I sat through a woman’s ranting about the “vile homeless” on a MyCiTi trip. My second column told of how I had approached her with an offer to show her another side of homelessness – this after properly introducing myself as a homeless man and a columnist for The Argus. I showed her a copy of my first column in the presence of her two children (28 and 31). I received a round of applause and was told my performance deserved an Oscar. I was told to keep my field trip. Whether out of sheer embarrassment or like me, wanting an urgent escape, her children asked if they could take up my offer. An hour later we were set. They kept reminding me they were not homeless, or carless and had no problem with my travelling with. I remained cool. Then, I hear that voice: “Well, I am bringing my binoculars, there is no way I am doing this face to face.” OMG. At this moment, either despair or love for this woman reduced me to tears. I gave some background about the different groupings of homeless people in Gardens, and how even at the mountain, there are four different groupings, and how different from one another they are in every respect. The children are full of whys and hows but my VIP is ”tjoep stil”. We reach De Waal Park and everything goes off smoothly with everyone seemingly enjoying one another – the cigarettes they brought along for the homeless was a classic move. The bystander is not interacting and sits on a bench playing with the “homeless dogs”. (Does she know they belong to the homeless?) We continue up towards the mountain. Moans, groans and not just a few mentions of cars. “Did those dogs belong to the homeless people” she asked? “Yes”, I said and we walked on. I am close to tears again. In Riebeeck Park, the first group was the Rastas collecting herbs – that goes off well. No one, including mom, seems to mind them. I take them past the Zion Christian Church brigade – they are in prayer. At the foreigner camp, I speak in Portuguese and French. “You never told me you speak French, and what is the other language?” she asked. Portuguese is my mother tongue and I studied French at school and varsity, I told her. We stop at the base of Riebeeck Park where I used to stay. “Danger”, the group’s mascot dog, is as mad as a hatter and takes a liking to mom, as she does to him. Suddenly, she walks, almost runs. Her children look at me, I look at them. (She is THEIR mother!) I see her on her phone. Soon she is gone! Uber is good! We walk back. The children apologise. “No need,” I said. She is not there. I am worried. My phone rings. Mom has just delivered a huge bag of dog food at De Waal Park and said she will see them tomorrow. I return to our house. She’s standing at the gate talking to one of the residents. She comes to me, puts money in my hand and asks me to fetch someone we met that afternoon. She proceeds to tell me she will pay for his stay. She squeezes my hand, says “see you soon”, and leaves. I try to stare after her but my eyes are just too wet to see in front of me. People say miracles no longer happen. I must be very blessed because I see them happen all around me all the time. Feeling blessed? So am I. * Carlos Mesquita and a handful of others formed HAC (the Homeless Action Committee) that lobbies for the rights of the homeless. He also manages Our House in Oranjezicht, which is powered by the Community Chest. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.