The following opinion piece is in response to “WCED has been calling to prioritise the adapting of the Provincial Equitable Share”: by Muhammad Khalid Sayed The Western Cape Education Department (WCED) can learn a thing or two from working-class women. A friend recently recounted to me how, as he was growing up, his father would come and hand over his meagre wages to his mother week after week. His mother would make the wages stretch to feed him and his 14 siblings. Not a single night went by where the children went to bed hungry. This story resonates with many people in the province and certainly South Africa. Often, research has shown us, large families continue to be dependent on the old age pension provided by the state. In fact, research by entities such as the Marks Foundation has shown that the old age pension and even child support grants are used by recipients as a means to start and run a tuck-shop or small business in order to generate more income, thereby making these limited funds stretch. With a few resources and with very little at their disposal, working class women have had to make things work. If anything, it is a living argument as to how grants do not make one dependent on the state but empower one to do more. It was with these scenarios in mind that I read a piece written by my colleague, DA MPL Lorraine Botha, titled “WCED has been calling to prioritise the adapting of the Provincial Equitable Share.” While I would be one of the first to call for more resources to be allocated to the Western Cape from national government, it is my constitutional duty as well as that of MPL Botha, to ensure that the not-so- little the WCED already receives is used wisely and correctly as our mothers and pensioners have done with their little income. Let’s be clear,  though. Education receives one of the largest chunks, if not the largest allocation,  of the provincial budget. R25 billion is no small change, after this year’s unprecedented second adjustment budget, with an effective increase of over R16 million. Hardly any other department received such an increase. In fact, in the midst of a global pandemic, the provincial treasury cut the provincial Health Department’s budget by more than R759 million. Yet when looking at the facts, we see what the ANC-led national government has only recently given to the Western Cape, particularly for education, after the adjustment budgets. We will notice the over R814 million from the presidential employment initiative programme for the employment of teacher assistants. Hypothetically, if we were to agree with the MPL Botha that the WCED was being short-changed and that the provincial equitable share should be increased, the question then becomes: is the WCED using the supposedly little it’s getting effectively? We have only to look at the auditor-general’s latest report to assist us. The answer to the question is a resounding “no”. It’s not using the supposedly little, though nearly R25 billion, effectively and efficiently. In her second special and latest report, the new AG found that the WCED selected a preferred supplier to procure over 2 600 cloth face masks to the tune of more than R54 million in contravention of National Treasury instructions. Quoting from the AG’s report, “none of the schools visited maintained a PPE (personal protective equipment) register indicating the type of PPE received, issued and used.” The AG report, among others, continues: “One delivery note indicated that 206 containers of 25 litres each of multi-purpose disinfectant had been delivered, even though the school only received 10 such containers.” The WCED uses public funds to exonerate former Model C schools, especially in the light of serious allegations of racism, then refuses to make public the reports of such public funded investigations while targeting principals at poorer schools, using departmental funds to persecute them. The WCED’s political leadership, and seemingly their praise singers, can learn something from working-class and poor grannies and mothers who make the best of the little they have. Instead, what we have seen from the nearly R25 billion-funded WCED is political mismanagement and publicly funded persecution of those who dare to challenge them. *  Sayed is ANC MPL and the party’s spokesperson on education and chief whip in the legislature. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.