I feel compelled to share my disappointment in the SPCA with the public. I wonder how many readers had a similar nauseating experience. You decide sincerely to improve a situation, only to discover later that your decision was in reality to the detriment of a person or an animal. My home was visited by a stray cat. The tiny cat was pregnant with the width at her stomach almost three times the width measured across her shoulders. Fearing that she was going to have difficulty giving birth unaided, I called on October 30 on what I thought was the capable hands of the SPCA to come to the rescue of the cat. The driver who collected the cat assured me that the cat will not be “put down”. A week later when I visited the SPCA’s premises in Grassy Park to enquire about the condition of the stray cat, I was told that visitors were not allowed to view the cats. Disappointed, I left the premises but made sure to get an internal record number of the stray cat. On December 20, while driving close to the intersection at Jan Smuts Avenue and Lawson Road Rondebosch East, I saw a pigeon limping across the street with its left wing dragging along. I stopped, ran after it and picked it up. A pigeon that cannot fly is a sitting duck to cats and other animals. I converted two mesh-lined safety gates to a loft for the pigeon. After two weeks with only a slight visible improvement in the pigeon’s condition, I decided to take it to the SPCA for professional assistance. It was admitted as a “found stray” and I was promised that a vet would inspect the pigeon and then decide its fate. At the same time, my wife enquired at a different department about the condition of the stray cat. The employee reported that the cat was euthanised. It seems that my action based on my sincere intention of ensuring the preservation of the life of the stray cat led to its death. Imagine how terrible I felt. Life is extremely precious. I should know. I lost my daughter – aged 30, a medical doctor – to leukaemia, just over a year ago. Who would have thought that an organisation whose motto is “We care for the welfare of ALL animals” would have killed a once lively and healthy cat. The cat would have been alive today if I did not intervene. Was I responsible for the death of the cat? You be the judge. What lies in store for the pigeon? * Adiel Ismail, Mountview. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.