Cape Town - Police Minister Bheki Cele is concerned about the number of people  arrested for contravening the Disaster Management Act. This comes after the police revealed that more than 20 000 people were arrested and/or fined for contravention of the Disaster Management Act since the start of the Adjusted Level 3 Lockdown on December 29. Cele said more than 7 400 citizens were arrested for not wearing masks in public, and a further 834 people were arrested for liquor-related infringements such as for the sale, dispensing, distribution and transport of alcohol. He said since the start of the national lockdown in March last year, over 342 000 people have been arrested for contravening the Disaster Management Act. Criminologist at Stellenbosch University’s political science department, Guy Lamb, said a significant number of South Africans were wearing masks and adhered to the lockdown regulations. In some cases where people were not wearing masks it was likely because people find it inconvenient, uncomfortable and some believed in fake news stories that masks would cause health problems. "Others haven't been adhering and taking the wearing of masks seriously, and did not regard Covid-19 as a serious pandemic, those who believed it's more like a hoax, or fake, despite what has been reported on media on a daily basis," said Lamb. "Some do not wear masks because they are not bothered by it, and some are hoping they won't get caught. I think what the minister is trying to convey is that there will be consequences if one doesn't adhere to the lockdown regulations," he said. Cele said: “I want to stress the point that the law enforcement agencies do not enjoy making these arrests,  as these laws are there to contain the spread of the Covid-19 virus that’s ravaging our country. However, police officers are left with no choice but to act in the interest of saving lives. "The regulations are among our arsenal against this deadly virus and failure to comply with them certainly will result in more people being infected and more lives being lost.” Safety and Security Mayco member JP Smith said that based on the City's statistics,  it could be safely stated that it has been a very quiet festive season. "However, based on the incidents reported by our staff, there were those who continued to flout the regulations, which comes as no surprise,“ Smith said. He said enforcement staff would continue doing their compliance visits to establishments and public facilities in the week ahead. "We encourage the public to please abide by the regulations and the instructions of enforcement staff to prevent being fined, or worse, arrested," he said. Cape Argus