Cape Town - Employees at the Robben Island Museum are demanding that the world heritage site close immediately in response to what they described as an alarming increase in Covid-19 infections among  the staff. After numerous attempts to engage their superiors ending in disappointment, museum staff said that they had been left with no other choice than to approach outside bodies to intervene. The group of disgruntled workers said that they were not happy with the working conditions at the museum. An employee who did not want to be named said, “Communication between management and staff is bad. We are blamed for bringing in the invisible virus instead of of them taking accountability for our protection whilst we work.” “The museum’s Covid-19 response plan does not cater for all, and everything is done advantageous to business continuing as normal which is not right considering that people are dying in masses every day to due Covid-19.” “We are not happy and management is not doing enough to protect us or the tourists. We are barely consulted and yet we are the ones who are working on the ground. We know the facility and situation much better than the higher ups who are issuing ridiculous commands that are misleading the public to believe that all is well on the Island.” In response Robben Island Museum management listed a detailed statement consisting of points countering the allegations against the museum. Museum spokesperson Morongoa Ramaboa said that the management was doing its utmost to adhere to Covid-19 regulations and protect its  staff and tourists. Ramaboa said: “We recently had an inspection at the museum by the CoCT, and they found us in compliance. With regards to our consultation process, museum staff were consulted as required by the regulations. “It is important to note that any action taken by the museum was to minimise exposure to the virus. Ultimately  the museum relies on all employees to be transparent and honest during the screening process and to minimise the spread of the virus in the workplace. “We keep a track record of all Covid-19 incidents on the premises and currently there is no clear link that staff contracted the virus at work. The effectiveness of the measures are monitored and evaluated continuously to ensure improvement where necessary.” Cape Argus