Whether we want to admit it or not, as a country we have descended into anarchy. Yes, we have a government but it is only there in name and those who are members of it would much rather prefer to fight (disorder) among themselves for enrichment. There is non-recognition of authority as Jacob Zuma spurns the commission he set up, the ruling party bigwigs ignore calls to step down and even our public protector attacks all and sundry including our judiciary. Because of the ineffectiveness of government our law enforcement agencies are severely under-staffed, under-resourced and under attack, leaving communities (society) to fend for themselves. I am in  communities where armed gangs roam the streets and violence occurs almost daily because gangs have taken the “organisation and control” away from government. There is general mayhem in the form of violent protests spreading throughout our country but there is no effective way in which the government is dealing with these issues. This, in effect, says there is no effective government. The solution? In the words of Nelson Mandela at the Cosatu Conference of 1993: “If the ANC does to you what the apartheid government did to you, then you must do to the ANC what you did to the apartheid government.” In my mind, this equates to “vote to remove them” and let true leaders such as educationists, economists, health professionals, agriculturalists, etc, who are really and willing to sacrifice their time and effort, build our nation. This will fix the country on a national level over the long term but what will we do right now as ordinary citizens to make things just a little better? We will start by treating each other with respect, love and dignity and obeying the “little” laws of the country. No one has the right to drive intoxicated, through red robots or stop streets. No-one has the right to threaten anyone who is simply obeying the law. No-one has the right to endanger others by ignoring Covid-19  regulations. Man is not only a sacred being but is also a social person and families are the first and most basic units of a society. We must spend more positive time with our families, building each other and in this way our local communities and society as a whole will be transformed. “…Heal the divisions of the past and establish a society based on democratic values, social justice and fundamental human rights; Lay the foundations for a democratic and open society in which government is based on the will of the people and every citizen is equally protected by law; Improve the quality of life of all citizens and free the potential of each person…” (Constitution of South Africa: Preamble) We will return to our democracy but only if we continually examine ourselves and our systems and if everyone respects the principles of democracy. * Bradley Sirmongpong, Kraaifontein. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).