Cape Town - Provincial standing committee on public accounts chairperson Lulama Mvimbi on Wednesday shut down a B-BBEE debate that had threatened to derail the discussion of the audit outcome of the annual reports of the provincial department of agriculture and Casidra (the Cape Agency for Sustainable Integrated Development in Rural Areas) for the 2019/20 financial year. Picking up from where they left off the same debate with Premier Alan Winde on Tuesday, ANC members of the committee questioned Agriculture MEC Ivan Meyer and officials from the department about why the department had failed to implement B-BBEE policies with regard to a number of criteria, including developing and implementing a preferential procurement policy. Meyer said: “The DA made it absolutely clear we would not use race as a proxy. This does not mean we do not want to redress the historical imbalances of the past. “If you look at historical injustices you can do redress and benefit the majority of the people, and we know who these are. I am happy to bring a full political debate on this to the standing committee on agriculture, as it falls out of the scope of our discussion here.” Nkondlo said: “Here we have the muddling of ground between the state and the party. The MEC makes reference to his party position, which I respect, and if I were interested in the DA’s dealings, I would actually ask him. But that is not the point. The question I am asking the department to answer is: The current legislation is B-BBEE. Does the provincial government mean to say they are not implementing B-BBEE? Has this department decided not to apply B-BBEE?” ANC spokesperson on agriculture Pat Marran said: “Can they provide a yes or no answer on B-BBEE, have they used it or not?” Mvimbi stepped in and said: “So far, as the committee on public accounts, we’ve been very successful in playing our role in a non-political and non-partisan manner, and I’d like us, as the committee responsible for holding everybody in Parliament accountable, to continue in that line without being clouded by any party political issues. Otherwise we are going to lose focus. “I will not allow that we make the committee a political party point-scoring platform. Please refrain from bringing unnecessary political party issues to matters of accountability, and that goes for all members of the committee.” Cape Argus