I have said it many times and I will say it again and again. Nobody is perfect and we all err. As long as we correct our behaviour and seek clemency with reparations there is mercy from God for anyone. However, the activities on Capitol Hill the “so-called” spiritual home of democracy in Washington DC in the USA requires thought. That US President Donald Trump fortified his fans to march on Congress is historical. That he publicly told his supporters that he “loves them” and “we were robbed” is also historical. Whilst I have often slated Trump, what is unfolding in the USA is critical to interpret in context. It is at Capitol Hill within Congress that has ushered in our modern era of “Great Deception”. Deception has been created at that location and spread causing the deaths of millions of innocent people in far flung parts of the globe. It is within Congress that war was and continue to be ratified. The wars against Vietnam, Korea, Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Yemen, Sudan, across the rest of Africa and South America. It is within Congress that the criminal plots to overthrow and kill democratically elected leaders like Mohamed Morsi of Egypt and so many other world leaders are ratified. It was at Capitol Hill that former president George Bush lied to the world about the WMD that Saddam Hussain of Iraq was allegedly hiding. His evil supporters like Dick Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld, Paul Wolfowitz, Colin Powell, Condoleza Rice send thousands of innocent Americans to die so they could enrich themselves from the looted wealth of Iraq. We must remember their names because we must identify evil and remind ourselves how they killed millions of innocent Iraqi’s and ruined a nation. We must remember Hillary Clinton who said “we came, we saw and he died” about killing Muammer Qaddafi of Libya. Clinton along with Barack Obama ruined Libya and inspired a power vacuum in North Africa that will last for years. The USA ruling elite was looking for the tons of gold Qaddafi collected from decades of totalitarian rule. They did not care about human rights or freedom, they want gold. The march on Washington DC reflects the reality that the American people are waking up to the truth that their ruling elite are deceitful and they use war to enrich themselves via looting. The American people now know that their democracy can be bought and sold and that their vote counts for little if it opposes the selfish murderous agenda of the ungodly ruling elite. The majority of Republicans in Congress support Trump and Trump is not about to disappear into history. * Cllr Yagyah Adams, Cape Muslim Congress. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).