by Farouk Cassim The conclusion of the Cape Argus editorial of January 12 ends with, “Despite our caution and circumspection because of the Covid-19 pandemic, let us resolve to really live, even when we are asleep or in pain this year.” This, to my mind, is certainly part of the positive way in which we should approach 2021. The other part is to learn the lessons of other countries so that we can benefit positively from their mistakes and miscalculation in respect of the vaccine rollout. On CNN, Dr Jonathan Reiner and Dr Larry Brilliant lamented the fact that only one third or just over eight million of the distributed 26 million vaccine doses had been injected into arms in terms of Centre for Disease Control guidance. Their view is that simplicity of plan should be the order of the day to keep vaccination targets on schedule. States that have attempted to undertake vaccination during normal working hours are falling behind. New York has a twenty-four-hour vaccination programme. Urgency demands that the measures taken to deal with Covid-19 should exemplify utmost urgency and, therefore, an optimal and extended response from the government. I learnt from the Cape Times that our country had secured 20 million more doses of the Covid-19 vaccines to be delivered before the middle of this year. President Ramaphosa has acknowledged that its comprehensive vaccination strategy will be the largest and most complex logistical undertaking in the country’s history. That being so, the government should learn from the mistakes others are presently making elsewhere in the world and bring on board all private sector role players on the one hand and Gift of the Givers, on the other, for the logistical expertise it has so ably manifested over many years so that we achieve the acceleration needed. South Africa will most definitely need a 24 hour vaccination service. This is going to be the most critical element in the successful rollout of the vaccine. I believe that all three spheres of government must set in motion mechanisms to allow for 24 hour bookings and to ensure that computer crashes are averted on account of the demand from the public that will arise. If the government fails in any way, it will be on account of sheer incompetence and the failure to learn from other parts of the world. If positive intent on our part to make 2021 a better year is combined with the action of the government in all three spheres to rise capably and competently to the challenge, things will fall into place for a better year where thoughts of tomorrow will have a brighter hue for all of us. * Farouk Cassim, Cope, Milnerton. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).