Cape Town - The Vygieskraal Cemetery board in Rylands has tightened security at the cemetery following extensive vandalism of graves by a group of homeless people living next to the site. The vagrants allegedly have been defecating and urinating inside the cemetery and the problem has grown exponentially. Concerned resident Salima Modack said graves were being vandalised to such an extent that the wooden planks which were used to support graves were stolen and used for firewood. “The illegal dwellers have affected trade at the Fish Market, desecrated, vandalised and (stolen) from graves, the cemetery as well as harassment of visitors to the cemetery. In addition — the use of the cemetery as ablution and toilet facilities facilities — makes the entire community susceptible to diseases. Patients at the neighbouring dialysis clinic are subject harassment and muggings,” she said. Modack said the community's right to a safe, clean and healthy environment, as well as the freedom of religion, and the right to bury their deceased were all infringed upon. She said constant communications to the City were ignored and further promises made by the ward councillor had come to naught. “During one of the peaks of complaints mayor Dan Plato met the Civic Association in 2019 to discuss the ongoing issues in the area.  A suggestion was tabled to the mayor and his entourage regarding the area adjacent to the cemetery and recommended that the area be cleaned and handed over to the cemetery board, as the area under question was regarded as "wasted-space" by the City. “He further advised the latter would be better, as the cemetery required additional ground. None of the mayor's recommendations came to pass; the situation became more dire with filth and squalor on the increase,” she said. Vygieskraal Cemetery chairperson Abdullah Salie said: We now have 24-hour security and we have got an armed response also. The security has been increased at the moment. Because that piece of land adjacent to the cemetery belongs to the City we want to know what can be done about it to keep the vagrants away because they are jumping over the wall.” Mayoral member for community services and health Zahid Badroodien said the group of rough sleepers adjacent to the privately owned Johnson Road Cemetery was known to its street people unit. Badroodien said to date the City has offered services, as well as alternative placement and care, to the rough sleepers, but these have been rejected. He said this was further exacerbated by the City’s limited ability to enforce its by-laws relating to public spaces due to the current pending litigation. Cape Argus