Cape Town – Housing developments in Blue Downs, Kuils River and Forest Village, set to deliver homes for more than 4 000 in the Western Cape, have been allegedly hindered and delayed due to reports of extortion, threats and physical assault against construction contractors and government officials working on the sites. One of the community leaders from Blue Downs, who did not want to be named for fear of victimisation, said he was aware of the alleged extortion happening in the area. He said there were a lot of things happening in those areas, which included the province's lack of engagement with the community before starting housing developments. He also alleged that gang members were at first involved and were part of those contracted by the province, before their contracts were stopped, “that is why they are fighting“. Human Settlements standing committee chairperson in the Western Cape Legislature, Matlhodi Maseko, said gang members as well as so-called “Business Forums” have demanded money from emerging contractors. Maseko said that led to the construction being halted, placing financial strain on businesses and in some cases led to attacks on contractors and officials. She said several housing developments have been impacted by those alleged criminal activities, with individual contracts and the implementation of bulk services temporarily stopped as a result. “These delays in creating safe and dignified homes for beneficiaries by racketeers harm not only their communities but also the livelihoods of all workers and businesses involved,” she said. Maseko said criminals could not be allowed to hijack the work of housing developments in the Western Cape, and the vulnerable deserved access to safe housing opportunities. Human Settlements Mayco member Malusi Booi said it was a common occurrence and it was to the detriment of the community at large and to earmarked beneficiaries. Booi said the City and/or its contractors (who are responsible for their staff's safety) implemented various measures, including law enforcement escorts, private security or the suspension of projects and services where the danger to life was pronounced. “This impacts communities at large and beneficiaries and residents in particular.” Booi said such claims must be reported to the police, the leading crime-fighting authority. Human Settlements MEC Tertius Simmers’s spokesperson Marcellino Martin said Simmers has requested the officials and contractors to be vigilant and to report any threats or intimidation to the law enforcement agencies. “As the department, we work closely with the sub-council chairperson, managers and councillors. Regular contact with the police, public order policing and extensive contracts with City's law enforcement, and where the need arises, private security are employed," Martin said. Cape Argus