Cape Town - A Delft resident is appealing to the public to support a worthy cause by purchasing her masks, in order to keep her community feeding scheme running. Since the start of the pandemic, Farieda Samodien, 55, along with her team in Voorbrug, Delft have been sewing masks for the community and surrounding areas while sustaining a weekly feeding scheme. Mask Up 4 A Meal means that the funds made from the purchase of masks will go directly into the feeding scheme run by Samodien. “Although the need for food relief is more urgent during the pandemic,” she said, cooking has reduced as funds are limited during this time. Samodien went from cooking twice during the week and on weekends to once a week and one day a weekend. Roughly 250 people benefit from the meals provided. She has been cooking for communities in need, such as her own, for the past 20 years. “I ask my friends to donate material in order for me to make masks to sell for ingredients to add to the pot. I need small businesses and corporations to purchase from me. Masks are available in bags of 50 at R5 a mask and R250 a bag, or R10 each.” Masks are also donated to those in need. The initiative is supported by Extreem Kwizeen Soupathon, Laeeq Toffar Foundation and MSK Sewing. Non-profit company Extreme Kwizeen Soupathon’s Evan Coosner said to date they had distributed some 1.54 million cups of soup since the start of the lockdown. “Our goal is to feed people and to curb crime, it was our biggest motivation. Crime is dictated by the price of bread. That's our main reason for doing what we’re doing- feeding and keeping people safe. Food is a right, not a privilege.” Extreme Kwizeen Soupathaon supplies soup kitchens with soup prepared by chefs, and sustains an ongoing relationship with the kitchens. Television and radio personality Soli Philander with Sharon van Schoor have been assisting with the distribution of soups to communities across the Cape. To assist, contact Samodien on 063 202 5153. Personal branding on masks is also available. Cape Argus