Cape Town – Community-based organisations have called on the public to assist in bringing ease to Covid-19 patients at the Tygerberg Hospital and those self-isolating at home, through the provision of basic hygiene packs and food. Western Cape Community Care (WCCC), with the South African Red Cross Society and other organisations, have come together to assist patients as hospital facilities face immense strain. WCCC chairperson and Belhar resident Nicky Booysen has been assisting the patients and communities in need of food relief, as well as those queuing outside Sassa offices, following the lapsing of thousands of temporary disability and child care dependency grants. Booysen said her organisation was alerted to the need for basic hygiene items for Covid-19 patients at the hospital, as restrictions were placed on visitations from family and loved ones. “Because of the requests received from nurses at hospitals on behalf of patients, we are now making care packs. We have already started the packs with a donation from the SARCS which consists of a face cloth, soap and a pack of sanitary towels. We would love to add toothpaste, a toothbrush, roll-on and a lotion. A message of hope and love written by children in the community will be included in the care pack too.” She said they intended to make 400 packs but lacked some of the items. “We have 100 incomplete ones. We are desperately in need of lotion/vaseline, toothpaste, toothbrushes, face cloths, sanitary pads, roll-on or spray.” A further 300 packs will then be made for distribution. SARCS Health and Care manager Marianna Nomdoe said SARCS and its collaborating partners were assisting in providing “dignity packs” as well as psychosocial support. “We provide Covid-19 cases and Covid-19 contacts with food parcels in collaboration with the Department of Health, (to those) who are in self-isolation. This is done through a verified process managed by the Department of Health. We provide the delivery service only.” * To assist, contact Booysen on 072 854 1689. Cape Argus