Cape Town - Police have opened an inquest docket following the death of three people in Langa in the late hours of Wednesday. City’s fire and rescue service spokesperson Jermaine Carelse said crews from Salt River, Ottery and Epping were dispatched to the fire in Mshumpela Way, Zone 18, at about 10.50pm, and quickly managed to contain the blaze. “The bodies of two women and one man were found among the debris and the scene was secured and handed over to the SAPS just after midnight,” he said. Mlungiseleli Sotsaka and her girlfriend Pamela Kupha and friend Portia Shwaqu died after a shack they were in exploded. Neighbour Khayalethu Mdayi said: “Just before 11pm while we were watching television we heard an explosion and when we ran to the shacks at the back of the main house, one was already engulfed in fire. “Within seconds of the explosion the fire was already spreading to the other two shacks, but there was no one inside them.The speed at which the fire spread seemed as if there was something that fanned it and we know that it could not be an electricity fault as Mlungiseleli was not using an electric appliance inside the shack,” he said. Mlungiseleli’s brother, Mfundo Sotsaka, said the family were suspecting foul play. “Even the sound of the explosion was not something we have heard before and the flames had blue and red colour, and we know that he was not using any gas. There might be something else, but we cannot confirm what really happened. “However we suspect that someone might have thrown something inside the shack and we were told that someone was chased immediately after the explosion, but managed to get away. It's not a coincidence that there was someone who was running away from the shack after the sound,” he said. Sotsaka said his brother's shack had no burglar doors but the door was not easy to open or close, as a result he always had it open when his friends came over. “We could see by the time the rescue team managed to extinguish the fire that they were desperately trying to open the door, while one of them had her hand inside a bucket, probably trying to extinguish the fire,” he said. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the cause of fire was yet to be determined. Cape Argus