Cape Town - Concerns have been raised about the illegal sale of the City’s branded refuse bags at traffic lights and spaza shops. Sandra Dickson from STOP COCT said the City seemed to have a perpetual “leak” of blue plastic bags from its store rooms. She said that despite the City’s claimed efforts to stop this, the refuse bags remained on sale on the streets. “The question arises that if the management and securing of plastic bags in the City store rooms are  porous, what else is leaving the City’s store rooms to be sold on the open market? The selling of plastic bags on the streets has been reported many times over the years which proves the City is not exercising proper controls over its owned stock,” she said. Dickson said that if this continued, the City would have to buy more bags than needed, which would end up as wasteful expenditure, inflating costs. This, in turn, would require the public to pay higher tariffs. “There may also be too few bags for those that should get them for free, resulting in uncollected rubbish that pollutes the environment," Dickson said. Bo-Kaap Civic and Ratepayers Association chairperson Osman Shabodien said there should be an enquiry on how things were being managed within the City Council. “I believe if bags can make rounds so blatantly and publicly then there are definitely other things making the rounds which we cannot see and that people get enriched from. It is concerning if taxpayers are paying for it to enrich private individuals. “The mere fact of enrichment and corruption or someone making money out of public resources is actually disturbing,” Shabodien said. Mayoral Committee Member for Water and Waste Xanthea Limberg said the City was aware of the problem and had over the years put strategies in place to assist with addressing these concerns. "It is difficult to pinpoint the leak, but the City remains focused in its efforts to combat the illegal sale of the blue City of Cape Town refuse bags and putting an end to it by continuing our initiatives to combat and curb the illegal sales," she said. The sale of the bags was strictly prohibited and there had been numerous arrests for the possession of stolen property as set out in the Criminal Procedure Act. Cape Argus