Cape Town - A group of 12 Khoisan made their second appearance in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, following their arrest on New Year’s Day, on charges of housebreaking, malicious damage to property and trespassing. Those arrested were part of a larger collective of the Khoe and |Xam clans, who had occupied a section of Table Mountain on October 24, with around a dozen people settling at Cecilia Forest at the time. Twelve people were arrested on New Years Day at Orange Kloof, Table Mountain. Bail was arranged at R500 for each the following day. The group first appeared in court on January 4 where the case was postponed. The collective had previously rejected the legitimacy of the charges. Cochoqua Project Coordinator, Shaun MacDonald said the collective identified multiple vacant, abandoned and vandalised buildings on Table Mountain, for “occupation, protection and preservation” and that the strategic process of occupying land was to exercise spiritual and cultural practices as well as for commercial use. Police spokesperson, Noloyiso Rwexana said previously that 12 people aged between 30 and 60 years, were arrested for housebreaking malicious damage to property and trespassing. “The suspects allegedly broke into a house as they were in a private property and they damaged the property.” Representing all 12 accused, attorney Tim Dunn said“ “My clients were arrested on Khoisan land while conducting a ceremony and intended to plead not guilty to the charges against them. The matter has been postponed until 25 February 2021 for the state to finalise their investigation.” Supporters were seen outside the court, with placards protesting the group's arrest. United Action Group member, Tazlin Maasdorp’s husband was among those arrested. She said, “It is a bittersweet moment, yet again postponement. However both parties need to finalise their investigation.  ’Mountain 12’“ greatly appreciates all the support and prayers from everyone. As this court case will go into our history books of tomorrow. The next generation will be proud of the sacrifices we are making today.” Cape Argus