Cape Town - Residents in Macassar were dealt a devastating blow on Tuesday morning when an armed SBV security guard shot and killed a 13-year-old boy in full view of the community. Macassar community policing forum chairperson Mark Baatjies said the community was struggling to come to terms with the violent and abrupt incident that occurred at a local petrol station. Baatjies said: “Yesterday morning an armed SBV security guard fired two shots and fatally wounded a young boy who was trying to defuse an aggressive argument between his father and the guard. “We are still trying to find out what the argument was about, but we know that the argument between the two adults had turned violent when the boy decided to step in and pull his father away. “The boy’s father and I are very good friends. Personally, I’m still struggling to process the situation. The entire community is on edge at the moment because while we’re a small community, we are very close. The incident has rattled all of us,” said Baatjies. “The boy and his father were very close and were always together. He was also supposed to start high school this year and now he is dead, shot and killed in front of dozens of people and even children,” he added. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “A 34-year-old man is scheduled to appear in the Somerset West Magistrate’s Court tomorrow for the murder of a 13-year-old boy who was shot and fatally wounded when an argument between his guardian and the suspect broke out.” In light of the fatal incident, the SBV Group released a statement condemning the incident involving one of its security officials. In the statement, SBV Group chief executive Mark Barrett said: “We are deeply saddened to hear that a young person has tragically lost his life. As a company, we wish to extend our sincere condolences to his family and to his loved ones. “Our employee is currently in police custody. While we are not able to release any further information at this point in time, we are working with the authorities to investigate the incident.” Cape Argus