Cape Town - The City of Cape Town’s Community Services and Health directorate has slammed the recent attacks orchestrated against some of its working healthcare practitioners and infrastructure in several local communities. An irate Mayco Member for Community Safety Zahid Badroodien said over the past few weeks, City health staff had been robbed at gunpoint and others issued death threats amid the continued theft and vandalism of equipment at facilities. “The seemingly consistent attacks on our frontline workers is unacceptable. We cannot condone the additional threats from the very communities our staff has to serve. Our staff are doing what they can to monitor compliance with health protocols for everyone’s safety, but if they are not allowed to do this, we are heading for disaster in terms of infection figures,” said Badroodien. Listing the various facilities that had been targeted and stripped by vandals, Badroodien called on community leaders and residents in local communities to practise active citizenry and look after community centres and facilities. “In Parkwood, the motor from the community clinic’s Jojo tank was stolen. Children later played on the roof of the Lavender Hill clinic and tried to remove the cage that protects the extractor fan. At Lentegeur, the Jojo tank pipes were stolen and the Covid-19 testing booth was vandalised and stripped of aluminium trimmings. “The money we spend on increased safety measures could have been used elsewhere. Criminals are taking more than just the possessions of hard-working staff members, they are robbing entire communities of much-needed facilities and infrastructure,” he said. Badroodien also spoke on the City’s stance on fatality management, saying the City had noted the increase in pauper and destitute burials, which were likely a reflection of the dire straits so many families found themselves in. “The City will assist destitute families where it can. Our policy on Burial or Cremation of Destitute Persons of 2014 is still in effect. Following a natural death at home or in the community (not including hospital deaths), the next of kin of the dead may apply for a destitute funeral with a choice of burial or cremation.” Cape Argus