Cape Town - The mother of 15-year-old Macassar teen Carl du Plessis, who was fatally shot allegedly by an SBV security guard, said that the family was still struggling to come to terms with his death. This comes as the 34-year-old suspect who shot the teen was set to appear in court today. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “A 34-year-old suspect is scheduled to appear in the Somerset West Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday, February 17, for the murder (sic) of a 15-year-old boy who was shot and fatally wounded in Macassar.” Macassar CPF chairperson Mark Baatjies said: “Du Plessis was shot on Tuesday morning after an argument between his father and the security guard became aggressive. “He was only trying to protect his father from harm when he stepped in between the arguing adults. The security guard had just begun choking his father when Carl pulled him away. Before we knew it, shots went off and he fell to the ground.” Du Plessis’ mother, 35-year old Carmen du Plessis, said that while she had started to come to terms with her son’s untimely death her family was struggling to cope. “Sometimes I feel fine, but then I remember that he is gone. My baby is really gone. He was my eldest, the only boy out of my three children. “As a family something has shifted. Carl’s death was a heavy blow. Today his father was taken to the hospital by his brother. He wasn’t well before Carl was killed but I think that what happened just made him worse,” she said. Meanwhile, the SBV Group has condemned the shocking incident, saying that they would be co-operating fully with the police. SBV Group chief executive Mark Barrett said: “We are deeply saddened to hear that a young person has tragically lost his life. As a company, we wish to extend our sincere condolences to his family and to his loved ones. “Our employee is currently in police custody. While we are not able to release any further information at this point, we are working with the authorities to investigate the incident.” Cape Argus