WARNING - Some pictures may be disturbing for sensitive readers Cape Town - A Cape Town mother is seeking assistance for her 20-year-old son who has cerebral palsy. Erishia Scholtz, 47, from Heinz Park in Mitchells Plain, said her son, Shameeg, was diagnosed with cerebral palsy at just eight months old. Speaking to the African News Agency (ANA), the single mother of five said she was shocked when doctors at the Red Cross developmental clinic diagnosed Shameeg. “Doctors said he has severe cerebral palsy, epilepsy and flopping infant syndrome and only gave him a lifespan of five years. But, alhamdulillah (praise be to Allah), he will be celebrating his 21st birthday on May 23, insha-Allah (God willing),” Scholtz said. Shameeg is her only son and she has four daughters, of whom two are still in school – one in primary school and the other in high school. Scholtz, who is unemployed, has devoted her life to caring for her son. Her daughters have also stepped in to assist. “Every day is a challenge with Shameeg. His spine is skew so he has extreme pain. At night he screams because of the pain. He cannot speak, so I don’t know where exactly the pain is coming from, but I try rubbing everywhere just to help him. “The physiotherapists said we need to get an orthopaedic bed for him, but it is so expensive,” she told ANA. Scholtz said while she may not have the world’s riches, she refuses to place her son in a home. “For me, it's the love we give him. Children like him only seek love. Shameeg is not a burden, he is a blessing to us all. He has a personality and loves watching TV,” she said. The family needs assistance in seeing to Shameeg’s everyday needs, such as milk and feeding tubes. “Shameeg is on a ketogenic diet, so he cannot just be given anything. The diet assists in controlling his seizures. He has three to four seizures a day." “Currently we only have one feeding tube, no back-up” Scholtz explained. Scholtz said her biggest battle is getting her son to his hospital appointments. “The challenge is getting him to hospital. It is extremely difficult as we have to make use of public transport,” she said. After many years of renting, the family finally have their own home, but cannot afford to complete it. “The house is still raw, the ceiling is leaking, it gets extremely cold. This is a struggle,” Scholtz said. Scholtz herself was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2016 and has to take chemotherapy pills. Yet her spirits remain high. “I am in constant pain, but I thank Allah for every day I get to be alive,” she said. If you would like to assist the Scholtz family in taking care of Shameeg, you can donate any amount to Shameeg’s bank account. Shameeg Scholtz, Absa, Savings account - Account number: 9167550389 Branch code: 632005 African News Agency (ANA)