Cape Town – The Strandfontein Ratepayers and Residents Association has urged residents to start taking pride in their neighbourhoods and the surrounding environment. This after a concerned resident complained about the increasing illegal dumping along a parking area in Lukannon Drive in Strandfontein. Eugene Fisher said with the removal of the skip bins that were placed at a parking area along the drive, people were using the fishing areas and pavements as dumping sites. “I agree illegal dumping is a huge crisis that the City is faced with, but when waste bags with City of Cape Town printing are found in parking areas and along the beach, one is left to think that the City also has a hand in the crisis. I have reported these solid waste issues and been told it takes 10 days turnaround time,” he said. Fisher said two bridges located along the drive were also used as a quick stop to dump, with the waste either floating in the ocean or between the dunes. Association chairperson Mario Oostendorp said daily complaints were received from residents. “We find residents paying other people to dump on their behalf. This often is done by the horse and cart guys who roam the area for scrap metal. The recent photos are of a parking area where the City has yet to collect bags. It’s quite common that the bags are left for a considerable time before being collected. “We are waiting on the department of solid waste to give us an update on the removal of the skips and clarity on why refuse bags are left on site for extended periods before being removed,” he said. Oostendorp said the City needed to ensure that overgrown bushes were kept to accepted levels, and park and street lights needed to be maintained as dark areas attracted these actions. City’s spokesperson Luthando Tyhalibongo said the matter was being investigated. “Illegal dumping is a huge problem across the city. The City budgets approximately R110 million to R120m for the clearing of illegal dumping hot spots each year to clear approximately 2 900 large dumping hot spots across the City. “If residents know who is dumping, we ask them to provide relevant information to the City’s Solid Waste By-law Enforcement Unit so that action can be taken,” he said. Cape Argus