Cape Town - University of the Western Cape Professor Romeel Davé has become the latest pride of the university’s Physics and Astronomy department. Davé officially received an A1 rating from the National Research Foundation (NRF)  the highest rating an academic can achieve in South Africa. UWC communications officer Harriet Box said: “This is an outstanding achievement for the humble professor who had held the SARChI Chair in Cosmology with Multi-Wavelength Surveys from 2013 to 2017.  To become an NRF rated scientist, one should produce top-quality, internationally-recognized, and field-transforming work. “The NRF honours only the top researchers in the country for their contributions to knowledge creation and dissemination.” Davé, last year along with 18 other UWC academics, was also honoured by Stanford University in the US as being among the world’s most impactful researchers. Stanford University placed these researchers from UWC among the world’s top 2% of most-cited scientists in various fields sharing research that makes a difference. “I’m delighted that my group’s efforts have been recognized as being internationally leading.  It is a testament to the hard work of many students and postdocs at UWC and beyond that have contributed to this honour for me,” said Davé. “This once again affirms that UWC is a place where one can engage in the forefront, world-leading science in galaxy evolution and cosmology.” Davé now holds the chair of physics at the University of Edinburgh but maintains strong ties with UWC, including working with several post-graduate students and postdocs. Davé is a leading expert on using supercomputer simulations to understand the formation and evolution of galaxies within a cosmological context, who while at UWC began the Mufasa simulation project. “He now leads its successor, the Simba simulations, a world-class suite of hydrodynamical galaxy formation models that can be used to understand the evolution of the visible universe as seen with state-of-the-art telescopes such as South Africa’s MeerKAT radio array,” added Box. Cape Argus