Cape Town - FoodForward SA, in partnership with Feed the Nation Foundation and the Western Cape Department of Health, have launched a pilot food relief initiative that will identify and expedite food support to patients with compromised immunity and who have lost their ability to earn an income. The initiative, which is aimed at supporting vulnerable people and families across the province, is expected to benefit over 1 200 families and provide 7 200 people access to nutritious food. FoodForward SA managing director Andy du Plessis said: “Through a standardised referral system, we have selected a group of nurses and dietitians who will identify food-insecure patients and send a daily list to the Western Cape Department of Health. This list will be collated and sent to FoodForward SA once a week.” “Feed the Nation Foundation will then provide 100 food hampers a week, which will be packed by Pick n Pay and Boxer stores and distributed directly to patients’ homes by FoodForward SA. This program will support individuals and families, reinstating dignity and well-being during the challenging times of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Du Plessis. Western Cape Health Department head Keith Cloete said much-needed support and food relief would be going to thousands of families in need. “This is a wonderful initiative and it will also provide significant relief to front-line healthcare workers to know their patients are receiving the critical food support needed to build their immune systems,” said Cloete. Pick n Pay director of transformation and trustee of the Feed the Nation Foundation, Suzanne Ackerman-Berman, said: “The focus will primarily be on those affected by the Covid-19 virus. However, food assistance will also be given to patients suffering from HIV/Aids and other chronic illnesses who are food insecure.” The food hampers would include maize meal, flour, rice, long-life milk, canned food, soya mince, and other basic non-perishable items. FoodForward SA would also supplement the hampers with additional food products, fresh fruit, and vegetables. Cape Argus