Cape Town - A bicycle initiative in Hanover Park has received some valuable support after a popular Facebook group published information about it. The initiative, started by Hanover Park resident Shaun Weitz, has drawn the support of compassionate residents and active community organisations. Weitz, a bicycle repairman in Hanover Park, began the initiative by repairing two bicycles on the side of the road during the initial national lockdown, but has to date rebuilt over 30 bicycles from scrap material for the children in his community. He said that he had not envisioned the project gaining such support when he started it but now saw the need for it to continue growing and potentially expand to other areas in his community. “Although this is not what I originally had in mind, I am happy the project has taken such a turn. With more people coming on board and helping me with the bicycles, we will be able to help even more children,” he said. Community activist Ridwaan Nero said that he had seen the need to help grow and guide the bicycle initiative after one day coming across children on bicycles in the road. “This is an amazing initiative and it deserves recognition for  what it’s doing for the kids in the community. I came on board because I was concerned about the children’s safety at first and that has somehow evolved into wanting to better structure this amazing initiative and in turn support those kids. “There is still a lot of work to be done, but I’m confident that once we source aid and support from other organisations and interested parties, we will make a success of it,” said Nero. One Second Later Founder Nirzaar Marlie said when he was approached by Nero to assist he had not hesitated. “When Nero approached me about this initiative, I was immediately taken in by its purpose and what it’s promising children who have very little. I think it’s an amazing project and that’s why I wanted to help. “There is room for its growth and that’s why we’re looking to support it. These children need projects like this to show them that there is more to life than what they see in their immediate surroundings,” said Marlie. Cape Argus