Cape Town - Police are investigating the death of a 14-year-old boy whose body was fished out of a farm dam next to Wallacedene in Kraaifontein on Wednesday afternoon. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said a death inquest docket had been opened for investigation following the death of the boy, who drowned while swimming in a neighbouring farm dam in Kraaifontein. “Circumstances surrounding the drowning of a 14-year-old boy on Wednesday February, 10  2021 at around 14.45 pm is under investigation. The deceased’s body was found in a dam on a farm next to Wallacedene in Kraaifontein. An inquest case was registered for investigation at Kraaifontein SAPS.” The boy’s mother Elmarie Rivier, said the family was struggling to come to terms with the death of their son and brother. “I don’t really know what happened, and I’m still in shock that my son is dead. We were very close and he was a good child, quiet and funny. I know he wouldn’t have been playing dangerous games because he was not like that.” According to a family friend William Papier, the boy had accompanied his mother to her sister in-law’s home a few hours before the tragic incident. “He left home with his mother to go and visit his uncle and cousins. Whilst there, he and his cousin decided to go to the dam. The cousin, who was with him at the time, said when they arrived they met a group of young boys at the dam who began teasing them about jumping into the dam.” “Eventually he decided to do it and that’s when the problems began. He couldn’t swim on his own and he began struggling in the water, up until he just stopped,” said Papier. Kraaifontein councillor Simpiwe Nonkeziyama said that there have been several similar incidents in the area over the last few years. “This is not the first time a child has drowned in that dam, however there are no preventive measures that have been put in place, besides the informal word of mouth campaigns we tried. It is worrying that nothing has been done, but I’m working to the best of my ability to ensure bold change.” Cape Argus