Cape Town - Women empowerment is close to the heart of Mrs South Africa 2021 finalist Chandre Goosen-Joubert. She is one of 25 women competing for the title. Goosen-Joubert hosted a charity event at the Radisson RED Hotel on Thursday, in aid of Women4Women, a NPO focused on female empowerment, community upliftment and youth education. The contestant, from Melkbosstrand, said the principles Women4Women followed were very close to her heart. “I interpret this program as empowering women and encouraging them to act fearless, to be a woman who stands her ground. Women who come from situations where they are forced to be silent are given a platform to raise their voices and give an opinion, without being unapologetic about who and what they are. In my opinion, a woman is the strongest and most beautiful creature God made.” Goosen-Joubert is a mom, businesswoman, model, designer and entrepreneur. She owns a fashion label called Chandre and Co, representing a retro European trend in South Africa. Her designs have featured in Zara stores in London. “Designing is one of the best parts of being in fashion. Inspiration comes from everything around me, including my personality. My new designs are inspired by one’s daily lifestyle and knowing what every woman needs to feel comfortable yet stylish at the same time. “Women empowerment is very close to my heart. I know what I went through as a woman and I am trying to be a motivational force for other women around me and help them along their own journey and through their own struggles. If I can help or save one woman or many, then I know that I am doing something good out there. “I have entered Mrs SA being a gender-based violence survivor, and I believe people need to hear my story, knowing that there is hope and light at the end of every tunnel.” General manager of Women4Women Brigitte Willers said: “Chandre is an amazing woman with a powerful story to tell. We are able to help children in underprivileged communities to get an education because of efforts such as these. Nothing we do is possible without funds and awareness which Chandre has contributed to tremendously.” Weekend Argus