THE Western Cape Department of Health has welcomed the new chief executive of the Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Dr Anita Parbhoo. Parbhoo has been at the hospital since 2008, first in a senior medical manager’s role and then as the acting chief executive since December last year. She has 15 years’ experience in management and leadership roles in the public healthcare sector. Besides a MBChB degree from the University of Cape Town, she also has a Master’s degree in Public Health from the University of the Western Cape. While being especially interested in child health, she is passionate about organisational culture, staff morale and finding innovative ways of working to promote synergy in the workplace while ensuring the highest quality patient care. She’s also a mother of two, a flamenco dancer and has a green belt in karate. She assumed her new post on July 1. “I look forward to the new challenges this role brings as well as strengthening and supporting child health services across the Western Cape and South Africa as a whole,” Parbhoo said. The Western Cape Health Department said it was looking forward to working with her regarding her vision for child health at the iconic Red Cross Children’s Hospital, and to set it on course for new and exciting paths. Dr Nomafrench Mbombo, Health MEC said: “I welcome Dr Parbhoo as the new chief executive officer of the hospital. “She brings with her a wealth of experience that will be beneficial in leading this hospital as it strives to be the leading specialised healthcare provider for children in Africa. I am looking forward to working with her as we advance the frontiers of child health.” Dr Keith Cloete, Head of Health added: “I would like to congratulate Dr Parbhoo on behalf of the senior leadership team on her appointment. “We acknowledge her extensive clinical and management experience at Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital and we look forward to the positive role she will play in our senior leadership team and the wider health system in the Western Cape,” he said. Cape Argus