Cape Town - Right up until the last minute of the June 30 deadline for public comment on government’s Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Amendment (Pepuda) Bill religious groups and faith-based political parties claimed the proposed legislation is a threat to religious freedom. Throughout the process the faith groups were at odds with civil society groups who said the amendments would help in the fight against hate crimes. According to the department, “the proposed amendments seek to address the weaknesses that are in the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act of 2000. They will strengthen its ability to prevent discrimination and promote equality for all South Africans, as enshrined in section 9 of the Constitution.” But ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe said: “ACDP views the Pepuda Bill as one of the greatest threats to religious freedom and calls on all God-fearing South Africans to oppose it. “The amendment significantly broadens the definitions of discrimination and equality found in the Equality Act, seeks to extend the scope of the prohibition of unfair discrimination, and provides for joint and several liability. “This means that employers will be liable for the discriminatory actions of their employees, even if the employer did not know about it and even if the employee did not act intentionally.” Al Jama-ah party leader Ganief Hendricks said: “Though we endorse the idea of bringing about positive amendments that are in line with the spirit of the Constitution, we are concerned regarding the document’s description of unfair discrimination at the expense of fair discrimination.” Rallying support against the bill, the South African Muslim Network said in a statement: “If the bill is adopted in its current form, the state will effectively tell people and institutions of faith  what to believe, including what they may and may not say, and may and may not do as an expression of their beliefs. “It will also tell them how to run their internal affairs. This is state regulation of religion, and flies in the face of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by our Constitution.” Freedom of Religion South Africa’s executive director, Michael Swain, said: “This bill pushes state regulation of religion through the front door by giving it the power to impose its own definition of equality on persons, businesses and non-government organisations, including religious organisations. “Organisations from across the faith spectrum who have fought the spectre of state interference will no longer be free to govern themselves or to define their own beliefs and practices. Instead, they will be accountable to the government and policed by activists.” According to a statement from the amandla.mobi lobby group, which campaigns for low-income black women: “The amendments aim to provide greater protection to people who challenge unfair discrimination or who are victims of hate crimes.” Equality activist group Standing Equally Together said: “This law is an anti-discrimination law that aims to promote equality and prohibits the promotion of hate speech and harassment.” mwangi.githahu@inl.co.za Cape Argus