Cape Town - Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo on Wednesday gave up her Covid-19 vaccination appointment to a complete stranger, who had been unable to register but had decided to chance it at a vaccination centre in Wolwerivier, in the Cape Farms area. Mbombo had been scheduled to roll up her sleeve for the jab at the Wolwerivier ECD Centre and then engage in an outreach campaign to encourage people over 50 – who have not registered for their vaccinations – to do so. The provincial Health Department is working with TB/HIV care and community carers, on a registration drive and pop-up vaccination site in the area. Mbombo said: “I was supposed to vaccinate at Wolwerivier ECD Centre but, on arrival, I saw eager people desperate to get vaccinated, and decided to allow them to get the vaccine instead. “I gave up my vaccine and went into the community to mobilise more people to come for the vaccine through a door-to-door and street loud-hailing campaign, calling people to get vaccinated,” said Mbombo. Sophia Heyns, 56, was the first resident to be vaccinated as part of the outreach. “I am not scared of an injection so I was eager to come today. Before this initiative, I was not registered, in fact I wasn’t really interested,” said Heyns. Another resident was Thobela Mdunyelwa, 66, who was brought to the vaccination site by his son Andile. “Many residents are still fearful because of fake news being spread in the community. There is nothing to worry about, it is safe,” said Mdunyelwa Meanwhile, even as people aged 35 to 49 years become eligible to register for their vaccines from today, Thursday, July 15, and will get their first dose of Pfizer vaccine in August, the provincial Health Department has said the EVDS system will continue to prioritise people aged 60 years and older, who require their first dose of the Pfizer vaccine. Next, in terms of priority, will be those aged over 60 who are eligible for their second shot, people from the 50 to 59 age group going for their first dose, and those in the 35 to 49 age group. Elsewhere, mayoral committee member for community services and health Zahid Badroodien said that with an average of more than 1 500 new Covid-19 cases a day in the metro, Cape Town cannot afford for its vaccination drive to be derailed by fake news. “While one does not want to legitimise fake news, it is important to address the issue, because it could mean the difference between life and death,” said Badroodien. He said the City’s cemeteries had experienced a slight increase in burials in the past seven days compared to the previous week, with the number rising from 390 to 410. “Maitland cemetery had 108 burials, Klip Road 96, and Welmoed cemetery had 86. We are managing the demand currently. “We cannot, however, indicate with certainty how many of these were Covid-19 burials, as the cause of death is often either listed as natural or non-natural causes,” said Badroodien. mwangi.githahu@inl.co.za Cape Argus