Cape Town - Renowned Cape Town choreographer Yaseen Manuel has been named the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation’s Artist in Residence at the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s School of the Arts for its Centre for Creative Arts’ (CCA) 23rd virtual Jomba! Contemporary Dance Festival. CCA Jomba! artistic director and curator Dr Lliane Loots said the Mellon Foundation’s programme supported the idea that artists, such as Manuel, should be given space to break the walls of traditional academia. “In dancing, we know that writing happens not with the pen but with the body. Yaseen will be doing his three-month residency at the university, where he will work with students, produce two screen dance films for Jomba! and work on his own vision as a dance maker,” said Loots. Loots said the 2021 Jomba! festival would focus on the provocation of “border crossings”, not just geographical borders but also spiritual, economic and emotional borders, which was why Manuel’s work was chosen to feature. It incorporated his historic Muslim spirituality and connected various themes, including race, religion and confronting his masculinity.  Manuel said he started dancing in 2008 as part of an arts focus call in Cape Town, then trained at the Jazz Art Dance Theatre (the oldest contemporary dance company in the province) and Unmute Dance Theatre. “My choreography, movement and work is largely influenced by the Qu’ran, Eastern-related choreographic influences and symbolic gestures that inspire my choreography,” said Manuel. “This will be the first time I’ll be creating for film, which is a big challenge, as I’m used to seeing things productively in a theatre. The obstacle now is to think from the camera’s perspective. It will be challenging, but I am excited for the journey ahead,” said Manuel. Manuel will be working with Flat Foot Dance Company to produce his two screen films for the festival, the first focusing on mental illness and the second focusing on a solo work involving his personal Muslim spirituality. Loots said: “I don’t really know of any other choreographer in the country, or globally, that can work around this kind of subject matter. We are very excited to see what’s in store.” Manuel’s screen dance films will premier online from August 24 to September 5 on the Jomba! YouTube channel. kristin.engel@inl.co.za Cape Argus