Cape Town - The African Religious and Traditional Leaders Council with delegates from across the province gathered at the Castle of Good Hope on Tuesday, to pray; denounce extortion, gangsterism and gender-based violence (GBV); and to express solidarity with Covid-19 survivors and crime victims. Apostle Dr Khaya Maseko, Salvation Church leader from Makhaza, said in light of all that is happening, not only in South Africa, but across the world, people needed a structure that could easily be associated with them, people who assimilated with people. People needed leaders who emerged from their communities; leaders whom people could easily be associated with when they speak out there. Maseko said that is why it was important to have a structure for religious leaders, a cohesive one, that was ready to represent and address people's needs. Executive committee member, Apostle John de Klerk, said leaders needed to be visible, to teach and motivate young boys, so that they may be kept away from joining gangsterism. De Klerk, who said he had a history of being a gang member, hails from Mitchells Plain. He said he joined gangsters when he was young, because they bought him “takkies and nice outfits”. The event that sought to also give support to those who lost loved ones due to domestic abuse and the survivors of domestic abuse, was attended by the State Security Deputy Minister Zizi Kodwa. Kodwa said the idea of people living in fear must be of concern to the government and the state. Also, the fact that there were communities in RR, Site B, Nyanga and Delft, who may tell you that when dark falls they were not allowed to go out or to let their children play outside, because there was a possibility of a stray bullet. He said organised crime and the underworld in the Western Cape was a very sophisticated syndicate, and it must be appreciated that although sometimes it may not get reported there was a lot of progress done by the state. “We must be worried about it, that is why the emphasis from the state security’s point of view is not just about police arrests, it is about community mobilisation. Communities must participate,” said Kodwa. sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus