Cape Town - Two people have died in Bonnievale and two others reported missing in Riversonderend and Stormsvlei following the severe flooding in the Struisbaai and the Overberg districts on the Southern Coast. The Western Cape Disaster Risk Management and other role players were working to assist several communities across the province that have been hard hit by the winter storm. The Department of Environmental Affairs and Developmental Planning said since making landfall on Wednesday, the storm had wreaked havoc in communities across the Southern Coast, moving inland and several towns on the outskirts of the province. “To date, several people have been rescued in Greyton, Riversondered, and Stormsvlei, with a group of farmworkers who were evacuated from a farm in the Riviersonderend area. In addition, the Malgas community has been cut off by the rising Breede river and is at risk of being flooded,” said MEC Anton Bredell. “All major rescue and emergency services have been activated and will continue to assist communities across the affected regions. In addition, the South African Air-force has put an Oryx helicopter on standby to assist with search and rescue operations when conditions allow. “SAWS predicts the bad weather will continue until Saturday and while less rain is predicted in the City, a warning has been issued for heavy rain in Oudtshoorn,” said Bredell. “We urge people in the area to remain indoors where possible, to avoid travelling around in the regions affected as roads are damaged and some bridges in rural areas have been washed away. Please contact the emergency services in the event of any emergency.” Meanwhile, humanitarian aid relief organisation Gift Of The Givers (GOTG) has activated its emergency response to assist communities affected by the storm. GOTG spokesperson Ali Sablay said after receiving a call for assistance from the Cape Agulhas Municipality, the organisation had immediately dispatched its teams to head on-site and assist where they could. “Gift of the Givers teams will be working in different areas assisting and providing affected people with blankets, mattresses, baby items, hygiene packs, sanitizer, masks, and providing meals three times a day for the next few days,” said Sablay. Cape Agulhas municipal manager Eben Phillips said the municipality was working in partnership with GOTG to assist hundreds of the people affected by the raging storm. “The floods have hit different communities in various ways, particularly communities in north Struisbaai. To cater to all the people in need, we needed assistance and that’s why we reached out to GOTG, and they came almost instantaneously to assist. We are grateful to them and the work they are doing to assist our affected residents,” said Phillips. The Shoprite Group, as well as other private donors, have joined relief efforts to assist the families affected by flooding in the Overberg District. Cape Argus