Cape Town - For over 45 years, Andrew Jacobs has become well-known for his warm, bubbly personality, affable smile and ability to make his enchanting tales about one of the world’s most famous garden appeal to, and inspire, any visitor, botanical boffin or otherwise. Jacobs joined Kirstenbosch as a youngster in January 1976 and today still works as a communications officer and tour guide at Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden. Those who have had the pleasure of enjoying one of his guided tours will tell you that his light-hearted yet passionate manner and highly informative narrative instantly connects with audiences of all ages. Jacobs is one of 12 children and coincidently, his dad also worked at Kirstenbosch for decades. His journey to the greener grass on the other side began in the nursery under the guidance of Walter Wisura, who had immense knowledge of succulents. Wisura taught Jacobs how to create cutting seedlings and tend the older plants. When reminiscing about his life as a young child growing up in Protea Village – from where in 1968 his family was forcibly removed, seeing them relocate to Lotus River – Jacobs admits it is a sad part of his past. But he quickly brightens the mood by saying that when he finished school and came to work at Kirstenbosch, the people who came into his life, such as botanists  Wisura and Ernst van Jaarsveld, took him under their wings and mentored him with their invaluable knowledge of succulents and trees. In 1979, Jacobs was appointed Plant Recording Officer, working alongside Michelle Botha. In the engraving department, he had to follow an intricate process of creating plant boards by hand, which heightened his attention to detail. In 1983, Andrew joined the Information office and completed his Tour Guide certification at the Livingstone Tourism Academy in 2007. Over the years, Jacobs has had many highlights in his career, and having the opportunity to join the team at the prestigious Chelsea Flower Show in 1989, travelling to Scotland to the Hutchinson Hall, then again in 1997 and 2013, stands out the most for him. He has also rubbed shoulders with many celebrities, such as multiple Oscar winner Meryl Streep. Jacobs is known as one of the gardens’ true legends and a role model. Every year he hosts the Geographical Adventure Tours and the third-year botany students from the University of Johannesburg. He is also a champion for the South African National Biodiversity Institute (Sanbi) and Kirstenbosch, sharing knowledge and educating people on conservation, sustainability, appreciation and enjoyment of the country’s exceptionally rich biodiversity for all South Africans. "Andrew Jacobs has made an immense contribution to our organisation over his 45 years of service. I would like to thank Andrew for his lifelong dedication and his passion for Kirstenbosch, which never seems to diminish," said Carmel Mbizvo, acting chief executive of Sanbi. Cape Argus