by Hanif Loonat There is no doubt that crime and gangsterism are out of control in South Africa. However, it is our duty as community activists and the elder generation to show the youth in particular that there are alternatives to crime and gangsterism and to provide them with the opportunities we received when we were younger. One of the main reasons many youngsters join gangs is that they feel insecure and feel the need to search for family because they have either been neglected or are not sufficiently cared for. Sport development is a key alternative to combating crime. It gives youngsters the feeling that they are needed and builds an extended family to which they can reach out when they face problems, irrespective of how difficult it is. Through sport they can make friends who can guide them. Another alternative, which I think is important, is the rehabilitation of criminals and gangsters. Instead of them being a burden to society, they can contribute in a positive way. If we fail in trying our best to rehabilitate them, they will continue in the same way and will encourage the next generation to do the same. They need to be rehabilitated in such a way that they inform the next generation that a life of crime and gangsterism does not pay and that there are people out there who care about them. There is nothing better than a lesson from someone with first-hand experience who has learnt that crime does not pay. After being a community activist for many years, with a particular emphasis on crime, and also being religious, I have realised that one’s faith keeps one rooted; hence I feel the religious community will have to play a big part in the alleviation of crime and gangsterism. It is well-known that religion in general has a deterring influence on crime. Also, as an agent of social control, it fosters conformity and reduces the likelihood of crime by encouraging the internationalisation of moral values and acceptance of social norms. What is evident is that as times change, the needs of people change, and what is being done to curb crime and gangsterism is not working. I propose a new method which should form part of the school curriculum, whereby educators should be able to identify those involved in crime and gangsterism, and seek intervention. Educators can sense children are heading in the wrong direction, but do nothing because they do not see it as their problem. Many are of the mindset that as soon as the year is over, the problem is left to the next teacher. People generally have a perception nowadays that if something bad happens it is not their problem because it was not done to them. We need to try to correct this mentality because crime affects us all in some way. As South Africans, we have overcome many hurdles during our struggle for the democracy we enjoy today. Therefore we should stand together to fight crime because it cannot be done in isolation. I am certain if we stand together we can easily overcome the problem. *  Hanif Loonat is an anti-crime activist. * This piece from part of the Cape Argus’ “Starfish Project“. Cape Argus If the idea of this project resonates with you and you want to be a partner on this journey, the Cape Argus offers a platform for you or your organisation to tell your story. Join the Cape Argus Starfish Project by emailing your full name, address and contact details to arglet@inl.co.za