Cape Town - Yogis who are looking to take part in a yoga class alongside the views of the Two Oceans Aquarium will now have the chance to do just that. The Two Oceans Aquarium has introduced a unique winter experience called “Yoga at the Aquarium” – a series of yoga classes happening in front of the aquarium’s large-scale I&J Ocean Exhibit on Monday evenings at 6.30pm from May 24, 2021 until the end of June. The classes will be offered by yoga instructor Magenta, and the cost is R220 per class. Aquarium members enjoy a 25% discount on the cover price. Once visitors have left for the day, the Two Oceans Aquarium transforms into a tranquil space, where soft lighting and flowing water mimic the peace and quiet of the underwater world. These Yoga at the Aquarium evenings are set to deliver maximum relaxation and rejuvenation. The yoga classes are designed for people of all body types, and suitable for people aged 16 and up, with minimal to intermediate yoga experience. Classes are limited to 40 people per class.  The classes will be led by yoga instructor Magenta who started starting practising yoga in 2013 whilst recovering from a serious dancing injury. She started her teaching journey in 2018 after completing her 200-hour teacher training and has since completed an additional 300-hour advanced training, both at The Shala Cape Town Yoga School. By fusing knowledge gained through studying a physiology course with her yoga framework, Magenta offers classes that consist of accessible movements that aim to affect both the physical and subtle body. Her teaching focuses on alignment and precision to ensure safe practice whilst accommodating different body types, needs, and capabilities. “Whether you practice regularly or are embarking on a new journey, yoga is about practising intuitively, consciously with breath, finding the tools that work for you, and integrating them into daily life,” said Magenta. All bookings and tickets are available via Quicket: https://www.quicket.co.za/events/124076-yoga-at-the-aquarium Cape Argus