This week’s word is pragmatism. The idea is to trigger discussion or galvanise further research. Whatever your level of interest, it is a win-win situation for all. For argument’s sake, I shall be pragmatic this week and not climb onto the wagon of the disintegrating ANC, the toothless justice system, the hi-jinks of the diffident Ace Magashule. Or even the ominously quiet Jacob Zuma. I shall use my space to deal with words. Pragmatism is an approach that evaluates theories or beliefs in terms of the success of their practical application. Put simply, it means to think of or deal with problems in a practical way, rather than by using theory of abstract principles. Associated words are pragmatist and pragmatic. The term is often used as the opposite (antonym) of idealist. It is understandable that the next word along the semantic seam would be sensible, followed closely by practical. Things become interesting here, because readers might want me to provide examples that will distinguish between an ideal and a pragmatic solution. It’s not going to be as simple as that. I shall first take you through the next stage of comprehension, then leave you to play around and just find out how much fun words can be. Especially if one is familiar enough with the meanings to distinguish between the semantic and pragmatic meanings. What is the difference and why do you need to know it? Because it opens the door to context, which always involves all the learning modalities. Allow me to illustrate. Someone could state that the Beatles song Yesterday is the most covered pop-song of all time. One response could be: “That record can never be broken.” But if the intention is to better the performance, then literally breaking the record in half would bring home the difference between the semantic and the pragmatic meanings. Or if a room is stuffy and filled with people, someone could ask: “Will somebody please crack that window.” It doesn’t take rocket-science to see the two different applications that would be the result of examining the context and the consequent actions. It should be clear by now that being pragmatic is often the result of rational thought which will weigh up consequences that will achieve maximum success. It might be immensely idealistic to feed all the children in the informal settlements steaming hot soup during the winter months. The ideal is fraught with arguments about how welcome it would be in terms of the poverty-factor and healing the inequities of the past which placed those children in those dire conditions in the first place. The pragmatist will think of the logistics. How do we get the soup there? Do we cook it in situ or do we bus it in? By semantic devolution, we see that pragmatism can sometimes be reduced to scepticism or inaction. Thinking about problems likely to be encountered is not always the route to go. But positing the notion of universal humanitarianism has a lot of virtue. Which brings us to the need for an ideal that can be achieved through the rational unbundling of the need, the realities of being practical, the degree to which the idea is practicable and ultimately how do we achieve the goal and make it sustainable. I shall leave my readers to consider the celebration of Mother’s Day this past Sunday. The situation has an ideal, but Covid-19 lurks. Also, the profit motive looms over the sentiment. Which would be the ideal route to follow to facilitate this necessary show of appreciation – the ideal or the pragmatic? * Literally Yours is a weekly column from Cape Argus reader Alex Tabisher. He can be contacted on email by actabisher@gmail.com ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).